AND REGULAR MEETING OF THE
URBAN PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MISKELLY PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL COMMISSIONER WAS FIRST
HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK COMMISSIONER
LEE HERE COUNCIL MEMBER THIS
PRESENT COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE.
COMMISSIONER ILL'S HERE.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM NOTING THAT
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER THEY
NOTED HER ABSENCE IN ADVANCE.
THANK YOU.
WE MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER THREE
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
MAY I PLEASE HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA WITH THE
COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED.
COMMISSIONER WISCH, IS THERE
ANY DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
OF ALL THOSE IN FAVOR?
PLEASE SAY I BY ANY OPPOSED THE
MOTION CARRIES AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER FOUR MINUTES OF THE
PREVIOUS MEETING.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE JUNE 21ST?
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER M.
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DISH.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE?
I I AND HE OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES ALL RIGHT NO.
FIVE REPORTS FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION, CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING MANAGER PLANNING
COMMISSION OFFICERS AND
COMMITTEES AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH ANYTHING TO REPORT?
YES.
LAST NIGHT BOTH THE NINE NINETY
NINE MAIDEN LANE THANK YOU.
IS IT BROADWAY OR IS IT WHERE
IS IT BOTH THAT THAT PROJECT
WAS THE THE CONDITIONAL
REZONING WAS APPROVED AND THE
PLAN WAS APPROVED AND THE
ANNEXATION OF THE ELEVEN
TOWNSHIP PARCELS TO OUR ONE D
WAS APPROVED
AND THANK YOU FOR
READING AND OH I'M SORRY YES ON
FIRST READING I'M SORRY AND IS
THERE ANYTHING ELSE THAT I'M
FORGETTING.
OH THAT'S EXCELLENT.
NEXT KELLY ANYTHING TO REPORT.
YES.
IN THE INTEREST OF KEEPING THE
COMMISSION INFORMED ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS, WE
WANT TO LET YOU KNOW THAT THE
CONTRACT WITH OUR CONSULTANT
TEAM IS EXECUTED AND WE'VE
STARTED TO DO INITIAL DATA
GATHERING TOWARD A FIRST PHASE
WHICH IS TYPICALLY AN EXISTING
CONDITIONS TO JUST GATHER GE'EZ
LAYERS PAST PLANS, OTHER THINGS
ALONG THOSE SAME LINES.
AND ADDITIONALLY I WANTED TO
FORESHADOW THE CONTENT FOR
THESE JULY TWENTY FIFTH
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING WHICH WILL INCLUDE A
DISCUSSION OF THE COMMISSION
WORK PLAN NOT TO CIRCUMVENT THE
CONSIDERATION OF THE WORK PLAN
BY THE ENTIRE BODY BUT JUST TO
REVISIT IT TO GET A SENSE
OF PRIORITIES AND ALSO TO
UNDERSTAND WHICH OF THE
WORKPLAN ITEMS DO FALL UNDER
THE REALM OF ORDINANCE
PROVISIONS TO THE TO THE NAME
AND TO THE POINT OF THE
COMMITTEE.
SO WE WILL BE WALKING THROUGH
THAT AS A REFRESHER TO
FORESHADOW BRINGING THAT AGAIN
BEFORE THE ENTIRE BODY.
AND WE WILL ALSO BE STARTING A
DISCUSSION WHICH HOPEFULLY WILL
BE TIMELY GIVEN YOUR AGENDA
THIS EVENING OF DRIVETHROUGH
GETTING ADVICE ON WHERE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WOULD LIKE
TO SEE THOSE IF THEY WOULD LIKE
TO SEE THEM AT ALL AND WALKING
THROUGH SOME OTHER CITIES THAT
HAVE RECENTLY OR IN RECENT
HISTORY APPROACH THIS SUBJECT
AND HOW THEY'VE APPROACHED.
IF I COULD JUST JUMP IN I WANT
I WANT TO POINT OUT TWO
OF THOSE ITEMS FOR UPDATE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND YOUR
WORK PLAN AND I JUST WANT TO I
GUESS RAISE A FLAG THAT I THINK
WE NEED TO BE VERY CAREFUL IN
SETTING OUR EXPECTATIONS FOR
OUR WORK PLAN OVER THE COMING
YEAR.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A LOT
OF WORK AT THIS TABLE AND AS
STAFF AND AS A COMMUNITY GO
INTO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
PROCESS.
SO I WANT TO I'M GOING TO I
GUESS I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT IT'S PROBABLY GOING TO BE
A LESS PERHAPS AGGRESSIVE WORK
PLAN THAN YEARS PAST WHILE WE
ARE CONCURRENTLY CARRYING ON
THAT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS
OR HOW SUCCESSFUL I'LL BE IN
TRAINING YOUR DESIRES IN THAT
REGARD.
BUT I WANT I WANT TO PREFACE
THAT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR COMMITTEE LIAISON'S I CAN
REPORT THAT THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE MET ON JUNE
TWENTY SEVENTH AND DISCUSSED A
NUMBER OF THINGS RELATED TO
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS AND
THAT MATERIAL WILL BE COMING TO
A WORK SESSION NEAR YOU SOON I
BELIEVE I AM ACTUALLY
FORGETTING NOW IF IT'S COMING
BACK TO OVERSEE BEFORE IT COMES
TO OUR POSITION THAT WE AGREED
ON SOME CONTENT TO COME TO A
REGULAR SESSION TO A REGULAR
STAND.
THERE WERE SOME ITEMS THAT WERE
LARGER PICTURE THAT WILL HAVE A
LONGER DISCUSSION ON DECK THAT
ARE TBD.
YEP, THANKS FOR REMINDING ME.
ANY OTHER OFFICERS COMMITTEE
LIAISONS?
OK, AND THEN THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKAGE.
SO WE ARE AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
SIX PUBLIC COMMENT.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISE HAND FEATURE
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO'VE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
THANK YOU TRAYVON'S I'M KENT
GARBER TWENTY CAUGHT MAYBE I'M
STRETCHING THE LIMITS OF WHAT
YOU'RE ALLOWED TO TALK ABOUT IF
THESE PUBLIC COMMENT SESSIONS
BUT I'D LIKE TO JUST REVIEW
SOME CLIMATE NEWS THIS PHENIX
HEAD ONE HUNDRED AND TEN
DEGREES FOR THE 19TH STRAIGHT
DAY A RECORD FOR A US CITY.
CANADIAN WILDFIRES HAVE BURNED
TWENTY FIVE MILLION ACRES BY
FAR A RECORD AND WE'RE STILL IN
MID-JULY.
FLOODS IN PAKISTAN KILLED
FIFTEEN AND THAT THE COUNTRY
STILL TRYING TO RECOVER FROM
LAST YEAR'S FLOODING THAT
KILLED OVER SEVENTEEN HUNDRED
PEOPLE.
I HEATWAVE IN MEXICO CITY
KILLED AT LEAST 100 PEOPLE LAST
WEEK.
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY TWO
DEGREES FAHRENHEIT.
THIS IS A CITY WITH A
YEAR-ROUND TEMPERATE CLIMATE.
THESE ARE REALLY OUR EMISSIONS
DOING THIS THE AVERAGE PER
CAPITA EMISSIONS OF AN INDIAN
OR MEXICAN IS A FRACTION
OF OURS.
WHAT ELSE SCIENTISTS AT HARVARD
BROWN INDEED PUBLISHED A PAPER
THIS WEEK IN ENVIRONMENTAL
SCIENCE LETTERS SHOWING THAT
BURNING FOSSIL GAS IS NO BETTER
THAN COAL IN TERMS OF LIFE
CYCLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
OVER TWENTY AND A HUNDRED YEAR
TIME FRAMES BASED ON WELL
DOCUMENTED METHANE EXTRACTION
AND SUPPLY CHAIN LEAKAGE RATES
.
MEANWHILE, CLOSER TO HOME AS
OF LAST NIGHT THE CITY APPROVED
TWENTY SEVEN GAS BURNING
PROJECTS RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL
HOTEL SINCE JUNE 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY THAT'S THE NIGHT
COUNCIL ADOPTED THE EIGHT TWO
ZERO CLIMATE ACTION PLAN WHICH
EXCLUDES NEW CONSTRUCTION LONG
BEFORE NOW WE WERE SUPPOSED TO
BE DONE WITH THAT AND ONTO THE
HARD STUFF NAMELY RETROFITS ON
THE MINE WE PUT ASIDE THE
VILLAGE OF OAK PARK, ILLINOIS
LAST MONTH APPROVED AN
ORDINANCE BANNING FOSSIL GAS
CONNECTIONS AND MANDATING HEAT
PUMPS FOR ALL NEW COMMERCIAL
AND RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTIONS
BEGINNING JANUARY 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR JOINING OVER
80 OTHER CITIES AND COUNTIES IN
THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THIS REMOTELY TO THE
CHAIR?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO AGENDA ITEM
SEVEN.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE SCHEDULED
FOR THE FOLLOWING MEETING.
SO A PUBLIC HEARING ON OPTATIVE
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE HELD BY
THE NRA PLANNING COMMISSION ON
TUESDAY, AUGUST 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AT SEVEN
P.M. THE FIRST IS EIGHTEEN
HUNDRED WASHTENAW AVENUE EVINS
HOUSE FOR SCHOLARS IT IS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
AND A REQUEST TO INCREASE
OCCUPANCY FROM SIXTY TO EIGHTY
FIVE.
NO PROPOSED CHANGES TO EXTERIOR
OF HOUSE LOCATED ON THIS POINT
EIGHT FIVE ACRE PARCEL WHICH IS
ZONED ARE TO BE TWO FAMILY
DWELLING THE SECOND PUBLIC
HEARING IS FOUR TO EIGHT ZERO
FIVE BURTON ROAD AND THAT WILL
BE FOR THE BRIGHTON VILLAGE
SITE PLAN AMENDMENT.
IT IS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
IT IS A PROPOSAL TO REDUCE THE
SIZE OF THE INDOOR GATHERING
BUILDING BY APPROXIMATELY TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET, ADJUST
SIDEWALKS AND UTILITY LEADS,
RELOCATE BARRIER FREE PARKING
AND MAKE ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING UPDATE'S PER THE
CURRENT EDITION OF THE UNIFIED
VOLUNTARY CODE ON AN EIGHT ACRE
SITE ZONED OUT FOR B FOR
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL THANK
YOU ITEM EIGHT UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
SO WE HAVE ONE ITEM HERE THREE
NINE FOUR FIVE DASH THREE NINE
FIVE SEVEN S STATE.
THIS IS A CONTINUED PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THAT SITE INCLUDES
A SITE PLAN AND SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IS A PROPOSAL TO
REDUCE THE SIZE OF THE EXISTING
BUILDING AT THREE NINE FOUR
NINE DASH THREE NINE FIVE SEVEN
S STATE BY 1308 FOUR SQUARE
FEET AND AT A DRIVE THRU LANE
ALONG THE REAR OF THE BUILDING
.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
SO WE'LL BEGIN WITH A PETITION
OR PRESENTATION FOLLOWED BY A
STAFF PRESENTATION AND THEN A
PUBLIC HEARING.
GOOD EVENING BRAD MOORE WITH
YOUR BROTHER IN LAW AND
ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS
REPRESENTING THE OWNERS WHO I
HAVE WITH ME HERE TODAY WHO
WILL PROBABLY SPEAK AFTER ME.
HERE'S AN AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH
OF THE SPACE THAT WE ARE
DISCUSSING TONIGHT.
IT IS AT THE EXTREME PERIPHERY
OF THE CITY LIMITS.
IT IS IN AN AREA DOMINATED BY
VEHICULE.
IT IS NOT IN AN AREA WHERE
THERE'S ANY WALKABILITY, NO
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
ANYWHERE IN NEARBY PEOPLE COME
TO AND THROUGH THIS CORRIDOR
VIA VEHICLES WHETHER THEY'RE
GAS POWERED OR ELECTRIC.
AND YOU CAN TELL BY THE OTHER
BUSINESSES THAT ARE IN THIS
CORRIDOR THAT'S THE NATURE.
NO ONE'S WALKING TO COSTCO
CERTAINLY WE ARE ASKING TO
ALLOW THE OWNERS TO RECONFIGURE
THE BUILDING SUBSTANTIAL COST
AT A DRIVE THROUGH WHICH ARE
LEASING AGENT TELLS US IS THE
ONE THING THAT THEY CAN DO TO
CHANGE THE HISTORY OF THE
LEASING EFFORTS OF THE BUILDING
AS COMMISSIONER ONE WE PUT IT
OUT THIS HAS BEEN ON THE MARKET
FOR A LONG TIME WITH NO TAKERS
AND THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN
TAKERS IF A DRIVE THRU HAD BEEN
AVAILABLE.
THE CITY DOES PERMIT DRIVERS
AND THIS IS CRITICAL TO LOTS
OF DIFFERENT BUSINESSES WHETHER
THEY'RE PHARMACIES OR FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS, COFFEE SHOPS,
MANY OF THEM RELY ON THE DRIVE
THROUGH FOR A SIGNIFICANT
PORTION OF THEIR BUSINESS.
IF YOU WANT TO COOK THE NEXT
SLIDE, MATT, WE CAN LOOK AT THE
EXISTING SITE WHICH IS
COMPRISED OF TWO BUILDINGS AS A
JIMMY JIMMY JOHN'S WITH A DRIVE
THROUGH ON THE WESTERN OR FRONT
SIDE OF THE BUILDING AND THEN
THERE IS THE UNUSED BUILDING A
SHELL OF THE BUILDING ON THE
EAST SIDE.
GO AHEAD.
THIS IS HOW THE DRIVE THRU
WOULD BE CONFIGURED.
IT WAS ALONG THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING AFTER REMOVAL
OF ABOUT 10 TO 12 FEET OF THE
BUILDING.
GO AHEAD.
THIS IS JUST A DIAGRAM SHOWING
THAT WE HAVE PLENTY OF ROOM TO
STACK CARS IN LINE WAITING FOR
SERVICE OUT THE WINDOW AS I'M
SURE EVERYBODY THOSE CARS
NOWADAYS, EVEN IF THEY ARE GAS
POWERED OPERATING WHEN THEY'RE
STANDING STILL AND THIS WILL
ALLOW THE STACKING OF THE CARS
AND EXITING BACK OUT ON STATE
STREET.
GO AHEAD.
THIS IS THE SOUTH ELEVATION
WHICH MEANS BASIC AND CHANGED
ON THE SIDE ELEVATIONS YOU CAN
SEE THAT THE BUILDING IS
NARROWER, GETTING SKINNIER BUT
THE LENGTH OF THE LENGTH OF THE
BUILDING DOESN'T CHANGE AND
THERE ARE SOME EXISTING PHOTOS
OF THE BUILDING.
YOU CAN SEE ON EACH HAND
THERE'S A THERE'S A BRICK
EXPANSION JOINT CONTROL JOINT
THAT'S ABOUT WHERE THAT REMOVAL
WOULD TAKE PLACE.
THE REST OF THE SITE IS GOING
TO REMAIN LARGELY UNCHANGED.
IT HAS PERMEABLE PAVERS.
ONE OF THE ADDITIONS THAT WILL
BE PART OF THIS PROJECT IS THE
ADDITION OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGERS WHICH THERE ARE NONE
NOW.
SO THE CITY GAINS SIGNIFICANT
OPPORTUNITY FOR CHARGING
ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
I THINK THAT YOU CAN SPEAK TO
THE FACT THAT THEY'RE PROPOSING
TO PUT IN MORE THAN IS REQUIRED
AND I THINK THAT'S EVERYTHING
OTHER THAN DETAILED CIVIL
ENGINEERING DRAWINGS THAT ARE
THERE IF ANYBODY WANTS TO
REVIEW THEM, THAT'S MY
PRESENTATION AND I'LL TURN IT
OVER TO OR
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS GARY SCHWARTZ TWO
PART NINE SEVEN ONE MAIN STREET
IN OAK PARK, MICHIGAN.
MY FAMILY HAS BEEN SEEKING
APPROVAL FROM THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR FOR A DRIVE THROUGH FOR
AROUND TWO YEARS.
WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED BY OUR
PROFESSIONAL ADVISORS THAT
ABSENT A DRIVE THROUGH THIS
BUILDING WILL BE ALMOST
IMPOSSIBLE TO LEASE.
WE'VE APPLIED OUT OF NECESSITY.
AS YOU KNOW THIS BUILDING HAS
BEEN UNABLE TO LEASE FOR FIVE
YEARS.
WHEN WE STARTED THE PROCESS WE
ARE INFORMED BY THE CITY THAT
IF YOU CAN GET APPROVAL FROM
THE NEARLY A DOZEN DEPARTMENTS
YOU CAN REASONABLY EXPECT TO
HAVE A DRIVE THROUGH A FEW
DEPARTMENTS MADE REQUESTS OF US
IGNORING THE FACT THAT WE
ALREADY HAVE SITE PLAN APPROVAL
AND ASKED THAT WE MAKE CHANGES
THAT SIMPLY HAVE NOTHING TO
WITH THE DRIVE THRU WE EVEN
AGREED TO PLACE AS BRAD SAID,
NEW EB CHARGERS ON OUR SITE.
WE WORKED OUT THE REQUESTS ONE
BY ONE TO SATISFY THE CITY.
IT WAS NOT EASY.
IT WAS NOT CHEAP .
IT TOOK US TWO YEARS AND COST
US AROUND FORTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS IN PROFESSIONAL FEES.
THERE ARE A FEW ITEMS I WOULD
LIKE TO NOTE THAT MAY NOT HAVE
BEEN DISCUSSED.
ONE THE PROPERTY IS SET FAR
BACK FROM THE STREETS SO IT
WILL NOT INTERFERE WITH STATE
STREET WHATSOEVER.
SECOND, WE ARE ASKING FOR MORE
THAN A TWENTY PERCENT REDUCTION
IN THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
BUILDING.
IN THEORY THIS WILL LIKELY
RESULT IN LESS TRAFFIC AT THE
INTERSECTION THAN ALREADY
APPROVED UNDER OUR CURRENT SITE
PLAN.
AS FAR AS ENVIRONMENTAL
CONCERNS WE ARE NOT A
DESTINATION LOCATION.
THE TRAFFIC TO OUR SITE WILL BE
FROM THE NEARLY FORTY TO FIFTY
THOUSAND CARS THAT GO PAST THE
PROPERTY EVERY SINGLE DAY.
WE ARE KITTY CORNER TO AN
AIRPORT WHOSE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT FAR OUTWEIGHS ANY
MINIMAL EFFECT.
OUR PROPOSED DRIVE THRU COULD
POSSIBLY HAVE.
I DRIVE AN ELECTRIC CAR EVERY
DAY MORE AND MORE CARS ARE
ELECTRIC.
MANY NEW CARS HAVE AUTOMATIC
SHUTOFFS WHEN THEY'RE STOPPED.
MOST IMPORTANTLY I WOULD LIKE
TO KNOW A FEW FACTS.
WE ARE NOT NEAR ANY RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS IS EXCLUSIVELY A
COMMERCIAL AREA.
OUR PROPOSED USE IS COMPATIBLE
WITH THE SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND THE CURRENT ZONING AT
COSTCO IS LESS THAN A QUARTER
OF A MILE AWAY FROM US WHICH
WAS APPROVED BY THE CITY A FEW
YEARS AGO.
THE AVERAGE COSTCO HAS 500
CUSTOMERS AN HOUR.
THE ANN ARBOR COSTCO IS MORE
THAN AVERAGE.
THE I FEEL THAT MY WIFE'S CAR
THIS PAST SUNDAY AT A COSTCO AT
NINE A.M. BEFORE THE STORE EVEN
OPENED IT WAS THE HOUR BEFORE
THE STORE OPENED.
THERE WERE FORTY CARS IN LINE
TRYING TO FILL UP.
I CANNOT PREDICT THE FUTURE FOR
OUR LOCATION BUT OUR LOCATION
MAY NOT HAVE MADE MAY HAVE LESS
THAN FORTY CARS EVEN IN A GIVEN
DAY.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT IT'S GOING
TO BE OR WE'RE NOT GOING TO
HAVE FORTY CARS AT ONE POINT IN
TIME THE COSTCO FINALLY THE
CITY HAS BEEN APPROVING HOTELS
RIGHT NEXT TO OUR PROPERTY
UNLIKE OUR LOCATION, THE
HOTELS, OUR DESTINATION
LOCATIONS THESE PROPERTIES ARE
BRINGING NEW CARS TO THE AREA
THAT WOULD NOT OTHERWISE BE
THERE.
THESE PROPERTIES ARE BRINGING
NEW EXHAUST TO THE AREA WHICH
OUR PROPERTY WILL NOT.
WE RELIED ON THE CITY'S
REPRESENTATION THAT IF WE WENT
THROUGH THE TWO YEARS
OF HURDLES AND SATISFIED EACH
CITY DEPARTMENT AT GREAT
EXPENSE TO US, WE COULD
REASONABLY EXPECT APPROVAL FROM
THE CITY.
THE ANN ARBOR LAW ALLOWS FOR
DROUTSAS.
WE REALLY DO NOT WANT TO BOARD
UP THIS BUILDING IF THE
COMMISSION DOES NOT WANT TO
GRANT ITS APPROVAL I WOULD ASK
THE COMMISSION TELL US WHAT WE
CAN DO, WHAT WE CAN PROVIDE AT
THE SITE TO RECEIVE APPROVAL.
SIMPLY TELL US WHAT ELSE WOULD
YOU LIKE US TO DO?
THANK YOU.
SO NOT ONLY TO THE STAFF
PRESENTATION MR. KORSKI OH I'M
SORRY I DIDN'T REALIZE IT HIT
ME TO WAKE ME UP.
I'M SORRY I WOKE UP CHICANAS
HERE ON THE COLLIERS COMMERCIAL
REAL ESTATE COMPANY IN ANN
ARBOR.
I'VE BEEN DOING IT FOR THIRTY
FIVE YEARS.
WE'RE WORKING ON THIS SITE FOR
MANY YEARS WITH THE OWNERS
TRYING TO GET ANYBODY IN THERE
.
IT'S KIND OF A HIDDEN SITE BACK
IN THERE.
SO WE'VE TRIED OFFICE.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH PARKING
PLUS OUR OFFICE BUSINESS RIGHT
NOW IS KIND OF IN THE TANK.
SO WE'VE TRIED RETAIL.
IT'S JUST IT'S JUST WE WE'VE
TRIED EVERYTHING LOWER THE
PRICE INCENTIVES, BUILD OUT
WHATEVER WE CAN DO.
SO IT'S JUST A VACANT BUILDING
DOWN THERE.
WE THINK A DRIVE THRU WOULD BE
GREAT.
YOU SEE THE TIM HORTON NEXT
DOOR DOES WELL.
IT DOESN'T CREATE A LOT OF BACK
UP TRAFFIC PLUS WE CAN STACK
MORE CARS AND WE WENT DOWN
THERE SO I THINK THE BEST USE
IS KIND OF A RETAIL DRIVE THRU
AND I DON'T SEE ANY TRAFFIC
PROBLEMS BECAUSE WE CAN STACK
ENOUGH.
I KNOW WHAT SOME OF THE DRIVE
THRU IS HOW THEY STACK INTO THE
STREET BUT WE HAVE MORE CARS SO
WE CAN TRY AND WATCH THAT ONE.
THANK YOU.
HI.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JACK SCHWARTZ FOUR
SEVEN SEVEN NINE COLLINS AVENUE
MIAMI AND GARY HIS BROTHER AND
I WE WANT TO THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TO SPEAK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
MY FATHER STARTED THIS COMPANY
FIFTY YEARS AGO.
MY BROTHER I JOINED THIS
COMPANY THIRTY FIVE YEARS AGO.
WE ARE BOTH PROUD GRADUATES
OF UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
WE ARE A SMALL FAMILY OWNED
BUSINESS AND HAVE BEEN
DEVELOPING PROPERTY AND HARBOR
FOR THE PAST 30 YEARS.
WE ARE VERY PLEASED AND HAVE
LOVED BEING A PART OF THE ANN
ARBOR LANDSCAPE.
WE HAVE WORKED WITH THE ENTIRE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT FOR ALL
THESE YEARS AND TAKE GREAT
PRIDE IN FOLLOWING THE RULES
AND REGULATIONS AND THE
GUIDANCE THAT THE PARENTS GIVE
US.
WE APPROACH THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT APPROXIMATELY TWO
YEARS AGO TO CONVERT OUR VACANT
BUILDING INTO A DRIVE THROUGH.
WE HAVE NO CHOICE.
WE WORKED THROUGH THIS WITH ALL
THE VARIOUS BUILDING
DEPARTMENTS TO MEET THEIR
REQUESTS AND HAVE SUCCESSFULLY
DONE SO AND RECEIVED APPROVAL
FROM EVERY SINGLE DEPARTMENT TO
CONVERT OUR BUILDING TO A DRIVE
THROUGH.
IT'S BEEN A VERY LABOR
INTENSIVE UNDERTAKING HOURS
MUCH COST AS GARY MENTIONED OUR
BUILDING HAS BEEN VACANT FOR
FIVE YEARS.
THIS IS GOING TO BE A REDUCTION
IN THE SIZE OF OUR BUILDING AND
IT'S GOING TO BE AT GREAT COST
TO US.
BUT DUE TO THE HIGH AUTOMOBILE
TRAFFIC OF THIS AREA IT IS OUR
ONLY VALUABLE OPTION.
THE BUILDING IS LOCATED IN
CLOSE PROXIMITY TO TWO NEW
HOTELS AND A THIRD BIOTRUE
HOTEL IS GOING TO BE NEXT TO US
AND IS IN PLANNING.
WE ARE KITTY CORNER TO THE CITY
AND OUR AIRPORT SET ME OK
ANYWAYS THERE'S NO RESIDENTIAL
AREAS GUYS AND WE WE REALLY
JUST WANT TO DO WHAT WE CAN DO.
WE'RE HAPPY TO WORK WITH THE
CITY.
THERE'S GARBAGE BEING DUMPED,
THERE'S CARS BEING LEFT.
WE'RE HAVING VANDALISM PROBLEMS
.
IT'S A VACANT BUILDING.
OK THANK YOU.
OK NOW I NEED TO STOP
PRESENTATION MR. KOWALSKI.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
THE DENTIST OK I THINK WE'RE
GOOD.
IS IT MY TIME ON.
OK OK OK WELL ASSUMING I ASKED
YOU TO BE EFFICIENT THAT'S THE
MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY RIGHT BUT
ASSUMING YOU MIGHT WANT TO HEAR
A LITTLE BIT MORE I'LL GO ON IF
YOU GUYS REMEMBER THIS WAS A
PROPOSAL THAT IS BEFORE MOST
OF YOU WILL PROBABLY HEAR BACK
IN EARLY JUNE WE HAD A COUPLE
OF HOUSE MEMBERS AT THAT TIME.
SO WHAT'S BEFORE YOU TODAY AS
MENTIONED AGAIN IS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION AS WELL AS A
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION.
SO THERE'S TWO MOTIONS THAT ARE
UNDERSTAFF REPORT THAT WE BOTH
NEED TO BE VOTED ON.
I WON'T GO TO A LOT OF THE
DETAILS BECAUSE YOU'VE ALREADY
SEEN THEM THROUGH THE
PETITIONER'S
PRESENTATION
REGARDING OBVIOUSLY WHAT'S THE
MATTER THE MODIFICATION IS THAT
ARE BEING DONE TO THE EXISTING
BUILDING.
THERE IS A SLIGHT REDUCTION
OF PARKING SPACES OVERALL IN
THE SITE ABOUT THREE LESS AS
ONE OF THE APPLICANTS MENTIONED
THEY ARE ADDING PARKING TO
ALREADY READY SPACES THAT ARE
REQUIRED BY YEAH READY SPACES
THAT ARE REQUIRED BY CODE AND
AGAIN SO AS PART OF THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YES I DID WANT TO
READ THROUGH SOME OF THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU STANDARDS
BRIEFLY.
THESE ARE THE THESE ARE ALSO IN
THE STAFF REPORT OF COURSE BUT
JUST HIGHLIGHT THEM FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION AS WELL AS
ANYBODY IN THE AUDIENCE AND
LISTENING ONLINE THROUGH
SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS A SERIES
OF CRITERIA THAT YOU HAVE TO
ADDRESS BASICALLY TO GRANT THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE FIRST ONE
WILL BE CONSISTENT WITH THE
GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY
MASTER PLAN AGAIN HIS STAFF'S
OPINION THE MASTER PLAN LAND
RECOMMENDS COMMERCIAL FOR THE
SITE.
WELL ACTUALLY THAT'S NOT
OPINION.
THAT'S FACT.
THE SECOND CRITERIA WILL BE
DESIGNED, CONSTRUCTED, OPERATED
AND MAINTAINED IN A MANNER THAT
IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE EXISTING
AND PLANNED CHARACTER OF THE
GENERAL VICINITY.
AGAIN, WE LOOK AT THE
SURROUNDING LAND USES OF WHAT
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT AS WAS IN
THE STATE STREET CORRIDOR WILL
BE CONSISTENT WITH THE GENERAL
CHARACTER OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONSIDERING THE POPULATION
DENSITY DESIGN SCALE HANBOK AND
THE INTENSITY AND CHARACTER
OF THE ACTIVITY AGAIN YOU LOOK
AT THE SURROUNDING USES AROUND
THERE IT'S A PRETTY HIGH
INTENSITY VEHICLE ORIENTED AREA
AGAIN WITH OBVIOUSLY HAS BEEN
MENTIONED RESIDENTIAL USES
DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO THIS.
YOU WILL NOT BE DETRIMENTAL TO
THE USE PEACEFUL ENJOYMENT,
ECONOMIC VALUE OR DEVELOPMENT
OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AREA IN GENERAL.
AGAIN, THE DRIVE THRU AS YOU
KNOW, IT'S KIND OF HIDDEN
BEHIND THE BUILDING.
THE BUILDING ITSELF IS SET BACK
FROM THE STREET SIGNIFICANTLY
IT WILL NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT, THE REPLACING A
BUILDING WITH ACTUALLY WITH
PERVIOUS PAVERS.
SO AGAIN THAT THAT ALTHOUGH
THERE IS A SLIGHT OVERALL
INCREASE IN IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
ON THE SITE, STORMARE
DETENTION'S SYSTEM IS WILL BE
ABLE TO HANDLE THAT.
THERE'S THE MODIFICATIONS THAT
ARE NEEDED ARE VERY MINOR AND
AGAIN WITH THE ADDITION OF THE
POROUS PAVERS THAT ARE USED
THROUGHOUT THE SITE, THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN WORKING
ON THE SITE BECAUSE IN THE PAST
WE'VE HAD SOME CONCERNS ON
THAT.
BUT IT DOES APPEAR TO BE
WORKING ON THE SITE SO THEY'RE
GOING TO CONTINUE USING THOSE
SO THAT WOULD HAVE SOME IMPACT
AGAIN TO THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT WE'RE LOOKING AT
AGAIN.
SO AS WHAT'S BEFORE YOU
REGARDING THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION IS THAT THE
CODE REQUIRES OBVIOUSLY THREE
TREES TO BE PLACED WITHIN THE
RIGHT AWAY TO COUNT OF THREE
TREES.
THESE TREES ARE ALREADY IN
THERE.
THEY IN THERE AS PART OF THE
PREVIOUS APPROVED SITE PLAN.
BUT CODE DOES REQUIRE BECAUSE
THE WHOLE SITE IS BROUGHT UP TO
CODE RIGHT NOW BECAUSE THIS IS
ALL ONE SITE.
SO WE AS PLANNING AT AS ONE
SITE.
SO THE CODE WOULD AGAIN HIT
THOSE STREET TREE REQUIREMENT
IN THERE BUT IT USED TO BE A
VARIANCE.
NOW IT'S A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION.
SO AGAIN THAT IS SUPPORTED BY
STAFF THE RIGHT WAY IS
EXTREMELY NARROW THERE BETWEEN
THE CURRENT SIDEWALK THERE'S
UTILITIES.
IT'S IT'S JUST IMPOSSIBLE TO
PUT THEM IN THAT AREA.
BUT AGAIN, THAT'S A SEPARATE
MOTION THAT YOU NEED TO
APPROVE.
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS FROM
FOLLOW UP LAST WE HAD SOME
CONCERNS REGARDING THE TRAFFIC
OF COURSE AND TRANSPORTATION.
I DID FOLLOW UP WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER THAT
REVIEWED THIS SHEET, THE STUDY
OVERALL THAT THEY WERE REQUIRED
TO CONTRIBUTE IT DID NOT HAVE
THE TRAFFIC CONES AT THE
INTERSECTIONS WITHIN THE
ROUNDABOUT.
THAT WAS A QUESTION THAT WAS
ASKED LAST TIME I ASKED FOLLOW
UP ON THAT THAT SHE JUST DIDN'T
THOSE WERE NOT REQUIRED BY THE
GENERATION HERE.
SO IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT SHE
WOULD HAVE AND THAT'S SOMETHING
SHE FELT WAS NECESSARY FOR
ANALYZING THIS HER CONCERNS
REGARDING THIS WERE INITIALLY
JUST SOME OF THE PEDESTRIAN
TRAFFIC THAT GOES FROM IF THERE
FOR WHATEVER THERE MAY BE FROM
THE SIDEWALK.
THERE IS A LIMIT ON WHAT'S
SHOWN ON SOME OF THE PHOTOS.
THERE IS A DELINEATED WALKWAY
THAT GOES FROM A PUBLIC
SIDEWALK BACK WHEN IT GOES PAST
THAT JIMMY JOHNSON BACK TO THE
BUILDING.
THEY'RE GOING TO ALSO ENHANCE
THE STRIPING ALONG THAT AND
THAT'S REALLY WHAT HIGH
INTENSITY REFLECTIVE STRIPING
IS WHAT THE TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEER SUGGESTED JUST SO
AGAIN IT MINIMIZES ANY
POTENTIAL FOR CONFLICT WITH THE
TWO DRIVEWAYS EXITING IN THAT
AREA BUT ASKING AGAIN TO
TRAFFIC GENERATION, ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT AGAIN SHE DIDN'T
REQUEST A MORE ROBUST OR
REQUIRE MORE ROBUST TRAFFIC
STUDY IS BECAUSE SHE DID NOT
FEEL IT WAS GOING TO BE A
DESTINATION.
IT WAS GOING TO KIND OF JUST
PULL OFF THE EXISTING TRAFFIC
IN THAT GENERAL AREA.
SO WE COVERED THE MOTIONS.
I THINK THAT IT DRESSES AND
PLANNING STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL OF THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION AS WELL AS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
YES, AND I BELIEVE I
COVERED EVERYTHING I HAVE
HIGHLIGHTED.
SO I THINK THAT DOES CONCLUDE
MY REPORT.
I DIDN'T EVEN NEED TO BE BUZZED
OUT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'LL MOVE NOW TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED PETITION ITEM.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
STERNIN OF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RES AND FEATURE
OF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHTY-SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
OUR MEETING IS NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IS AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS SO WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME IF I'M GARY SCHWARTZ I
WANT DECISION OR SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING YOU KNOW WE
PROVIDE EXTENDED TIME FOR THE
PETITIONER DURING THE TEN
MINUTES THIS WOULD BE FOR OTHER
COMMENTERS I BUT DURING
DISCUSSION THOUGH IF WE HAVE
QUESTIONS THEN WE CAN DISCUSS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THE
TIME AT THIS TIME
FERRYBRIDGE
KINGARA AGAIN FIRST OF ALL A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE IS NOT A
BIG DEAL.
ANY PROJECT I SPOKE AGAINST IT
IN JUNE BUT IF YOU APPROVE IT
TONIGHT THAT'S FINE.
IT FITS MOST OF THE UDC
CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL WITH THE
EXCEPTION IN MY OPINION
OF TWENTY NINE.
I'D WANT TO SEE THAT A QUOTE
WILL NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT END QUOTE.
I DISAGREE WITH MR. KAWALSKY ON
THIS.
I PAVEMENT SPECIFICALLY FOR A
DRIVE THRU WILL INCREASE
VEHICLE EMISSIONS FROM VEHICLE
IDLING VEHICLE MORE IS CORRECT.
WE MANY NEW CARS DO HAVE STOP
START IGNITION SYSTEMS BUT MANY
PEOPLE DISABLED THEM OR BY
VEHICLES WITHOUT THEM AND
THERE'S A LOT OF OLDER VEHICLES
ALSO.
BUT I HAVE HEARD THAT RIGHT NOW
THESE ARE ALL THE RAGE FOR
REFERENCE BANKS AND RETAILERS.
I LIVE NEAR A STARBUCKS THAT
JUST REMODELED TO ACCOMMODATE
MORE DRIVE THRU CUSTOMERS.
PANERA RECENTLY VACATED ITS
BUILDINGS AND BOTH PLYMOUTH AND
JACKSON ROADS IN ORDER TO BUILD
NEW NEARBY PIONEROS.
WE HAVE DRYFOOS AFTER YOU
DENIED USING CREDIT UNION SEIU
IN APRIL WHICH WAS THE RIGHT
CALL.
I SPOKE TO CREDIT UNION
PRESIDENT TIFFANY FORD WHO TOLD
ME THAT SOMETHING LIKE 40
PERCENT OF CUSTOMERS OF THE
CREDIT UNIONS JACKSON ROAD
BRANCH DO USE THE DRIVE THROUGH
THERE.
IN FACT WHEN I DROVE A CAR I
USED THAT DRIVE THROUGH MY ATM
SEVERAL TIMES MYSELF.
PEOPLE HATE TO GET OUT OF THEIR
VEHICLES SO YOU HAVE GOT TO
APPROVE OF YOUR COMPETITION OR
AT LEAST THEY'RE GOING AND GET
A BETTER WAY TO GO AND VOTE YES
,IT'S OK.
BUT CONSIDER THIS THE CITY IS
TWICE REZONE THIS PROPERTY A
PETITION TO REQUEST FIRST IN
2003 FROM RESEARCH TO OFFICE TO
ENABLE MORE PROFITABLE USES AND
AGAIN IN 2013 FROM OFFICE TO
SEE THREE TO ACCOMMODATE THEIR
PLAN THEY CHOSE TO BUILD
SPECULATIVE RETAIL ON A SLIVER
OF PROPERTY THAT HAS NO
VISIBILITY FROM STATE STREET
NEXT TO NO VISIBILITY AND ZERO
ACCESS FROM ELSWORTH.
WHY DID THEY DO THIS ON THE
SCHWARZ'S?
I CAN TELL YOU IF YOU'RE
INTERESTED I'D BE INTERESTED
BUT THE QUESTION HERE TONIGHT
IS SHOULD WE FOR YOU HAVE DONE
THAT YET AGAIN?
I SUPPOSE IF YOU DECIDE THE SIU
PROPOSAL SUBSTANTIALLY MEETS
UDC CRITERIA.
IF SO I PERSONALLY WON'T LOSE
ANY SLEEP AND NOR SHOULD YOU.
BUT IT'S INCREDIBLY DEPRESSING
TO KNOW THAT PEOPLE ARE GETTING
MORE AND MORE WEDDED TO THEIR
VEHICLES.
YOU CAN'T REALLY CALL THEM CARS
BECAUSE THEY'RE MOSTLY SUVS
INSTEAD OF REST WHICH IS WHAT
WE NEED WHICH IS WHAT THE
CLIMATE NEEDS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO ABOUT
THIS FRANKLY BUT BANNING NEW
DRIVE FUSION IN AABA AS
MINNEAPOLIS DID WOULD BE ONE
SMALL STEP.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED AT
THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
CURRENTLY THE PROPOSED MOTIONS
ARE IT'S PROPOSED TO TAKE THE
PROPOSED MOTIONS TOGETHER.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE
TO DISCUSS THAT OR SPEAK IN
FAVOR OF TAKING THEM
SEPARATELY?
OK, SO WE'RE GOING TO TAKE THE
MOTIONS TOGETHER.
I'LL READ THEM NOW THE FIRST
MOTION READS THE ENTIRE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION AFTER
HEARING ALL INTERESTED PERSONS
AND REVIEWING ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION FINDS THE PETITION
TO SUBSTANTIALLY MEET THE
STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT FIVE SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
APPROVES THE THREE NINE FOUR
NINE THREE NINE FIVE SEVEN
SOUTH STATE STREET SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE THREE NINE FOUR
FIVE DASH THREE NINE FIVE SEVEN
SOUTH STATE STREET FOR A DRIVE
THRU FACILITY.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS.
IT WILL BE CONSISTENT WITH THE
GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
OF COMMERCIAL USES IN THE AREA
AND THE PROPOSED USE WILL NOT
ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION.
THE PROPOSED USE IS CONSISTENT
WITH OTHER SURROUNDING USES AND
TRAFFIC TRAFFIC IMPACT MY
SEEING A TYPO SORRY NO.
OK USES APOSTROPHE TRAFFIC
IMPACT PARDON ME THE SECOND
MOTION READS THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES THE
THREE NINE FOUR NINE DASH THREE
NINE FIVE SEVEN SOUTH STATE
STREET SITE PLAN AT THREE NINE
FOUR OR FIVE DASH THREE NINE
FIVE SEVEN SOUTH STATE STREET
INCLUDING A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION THAT ALLOWS
EXISTING TREES JUST OUTSIDE THE
RIGHT AWAY TO BE COUNTED AS
REQUIRED TREES MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER LEE.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO'D LIKE TO
BEGIN DISCUSSION OF THIS MOTION
,THESE MOTIONS COME MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THANK YOU.
I READ HAVE FEELINGS DRAFTERS
AT THIS TABLE UM I DON'T REALLY
HAVE THOSE FEELINGS ABOUT
DRAGSTERS.
I WILL SAY I AND HOPEFULLY MR.
MOORE MENTIONED IT'S NOT REALLY
A WALKABLE AREA.
IT'S NOT CUSTOMER FRIENDLY.
VERY TRUE.
HOPEFULLY EVENTUALLY THIS AREA
WILL BE MORE WALKABLE.
HOWEVER I MEAN I THINK FOR ME
JUST HEARING EVERYTHING THAT
WE'VE HEARD TONIGHT SEEING
WHERE THIS IS LOCATED, I
WOULDN'T WANT TO SEE THE
BUILDING BOARDED UP.
I WOULDN'T WANT TO SEE IT
DEMOLISHED TO REBUILD ANYTHING
NEW.
BUT THAT'S DEFINITELY NOT
SUSTAINABLE IN FIVE YEARS EVEN
I'M ASSUMING ACTIVELY TRYING TO
LEASE THIS.
I'M I'M FINE WITH THIS AND I
WILL SUPPORT THIS.
I DO HAVE A QUESTION THOUGH AND
I DON'T KNOW WHO WHOSE PURVIEW
THIS WOULD BE UNDER.
WOULD YOU CONSIDER IF IT'S THE
PETITIONER ALLOWING BIKES TO GO
THROUGH THE DRIVE THRU?
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE THERE ARE A
LOT OF DRIVERS THAT YOU CAN'T
DO THAT.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S A CITY
THING.
I DON'T KNOW OFTENTIMES THE
CONDITION OF THE UNDERWRITER,
THE INSURANCE OF THE TENANT
BECAUSE THEY HAVE TO INSURE
THAT PROPERTY AND SO IF YOU
FIND IT UNDERWRITER THAT WE'LL
DO THAT, THAT'S FINE.
BUT MANY WANT BECAUSE THEY
DON'T WANT A BICYCLIST BETWEEN
TWO VEHICLES AND SOMEONE'S
COUNTRY.
YEAH.
SO IT'S REALLY AN INSURANCE
UNDER ANY WELL THE ANSWER IS
YES WE WILL.
OK, IF YOU CAN FIND SOMEBODY TO
UNDERWRITE THAT I'M JUST I'M
JUST TRYING TO THINK FORWARD,
YOU KNOW, LIKE MORE PEOPLE LIKE
AS THE CITY GETS MORE BIKE
LANES LIKE DEPENDING ON WHAT
WHAT LISA'S HERE IF IT'S
SOMETHING THAT YOU MIGHT WANT
TO RIDE A BIKE TO BEING ABLE TO
JUST LIKE YOU KNOW, PICK UP A
PRESCRIPTION AT A PHARMACY
DRIVE THRU WINDOW COULD BE YOU
KNOW, WITHOUT HAVING TO PARK
BACK LIKE YOUR BIKE MIGHT BE
SOMETHING PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
OK, WELL I'M SORRY THAT IT TOOK
YOU TWO YEARS TO GET THEIR
APPROVALS, BUT I'M I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS SO I HOPE
SOMETHING USEFUL TO THE
COMMUNITY WILL LEASE THE SPACE
FOR MICHELLE'S I AGREE LARGELY
WITH WHAT COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT HAD HAS TO SAY.
I THINK OFTENTIMES THE SCRUTINY
THAT I THAT I REALLY PICK UP ON
FOR DRIVE THROUGH IS THE IMPACT
THAT IT WOULD HAVE ON
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AND WHERE
THIS IS IT'S VERY UNLIKELY TO
HAVE THAT THERE WOULD BE
QUEUING KIND OF AT THE AT THE
SIDEWALK OR THAT IT WOULD
IMPACT THAT AT ALL.
MY SENSE IS IF THERE'S A PLACE
FOR DRIVERS WITHIN OUR CITY
BOUNDARIES, THIS IS IT.
AND I KNOW SIMILAR TO
COMMISSIONER HAMAJIMA I'M
CURIOUS WHAT OTHER PEOPLE HAVE
TO SAY AND I THINK THAT THIS IS
I'M GLAD THAT WE ARE
CONTEMPLATING AGAIN KIND OF OUR
STATUS AND DRIVE THROUGH.
I WOULD ALSO ADD I THINK THAT
BUILDING IS NOT A GREAT
NEIGHBOR AND WE HAVE APPROVED A
NUMBER OF HOTELS NEARBY AND
BEING ABLE TO WALK FROM THE
HOTEL TO A PLACE TO DINE AND
WELL MY CHILDREN IN THE BACK
WILL KNOW THAT MOMMY DOESN'T
LIKE JIMMY JOHNS NECESSARILY
OPTION BUT I THINK THAT WOULD I
THINK THAT THAT IS A BENEFIT
BUT TO THE SURROUNDING USES SO
I I THINK THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING I'M ABLE TO SUPPORT
AS WELL AS ANYONE ELSE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK PROMOTIONALLY.
SURE.
YOU KNOW, IT IS LITERALLY AGAIN
UNDER A UDC IS IT CONSISTENT
WITH THE GENERAL OBJECTIVES
OF THE CITY MASTER PLAN A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
YES.
DESIGNED TO TRY TO OPERATE IT
IN A MANNER COMPATIBLE WITH THE
EXISTING AND PLANNED CHARACTER
OF GENERAL RANCIDITY?
I BELIEVE SO.
AND AGAIN, BELLTOWER QUICKLY
ZIPPY'S ALWASH SPEEDWAY I THINK
THE KIND OF ABUSES HERE AND IT
IS CONSISTENT WITH THAT
CHARACTER THIS IS ON SEE THREE
FRINGE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
IT DOES INDICATE VERY
SPECIFICALLY HERE THERE'S
INTERDEPENDENCE OF ACTIVITIES.
ESTABLISHMENT CAN BE DISTURBED
,DISPERSED OVER CONSIDERABLE
AREAS GOOD AUTOMATABLE
ACCESSIBILITY IS ESSENTIAL TO
THE DISTRICT SO THE USE IS
PERMITTED BECAUSE OF THEIR LACK
OF INTENSE PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITY
AND THE REQUIRED CONTACT
THOUGHT OF ACCESS WOULD BE
INCOMPATIBLE IN THE DOWNTOWN
AREA.
I DO THINK THAT IT
SUBSTANTIALLY MEETS THE UDC
PRESCRIBED SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
WILL ALSO BE IN SUPPORT OF THIS
AMERICAN.
JUST CONTEXTUALLY SPEAKING FOR
THOSE LISTENING LET'S JUST SAY
I WAS RUNNING SOME VERY ROUGH
MATH HERE THEY ARE VOLUNTARY
SAYING THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
REDUCE THEIR BUILDING BY ABOUT
FIFTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FEET.
SO IF WE HAVE FIFTEEN PEOPLE
PER SQUARE FOOT LET'S JUST LOOK
AT IT THAT WAY AND THEY USE A
HALF PERCENT CAP RATE.
THEY'RE LITERALLY SAYING I'M
GOING TO REDUCE THE VALUE OF MY
BUILDING BY THREE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
SO THAT IS BASICALLY SAYING I I
DON'T THINK THIS IS GOING TO
LEASE FOR THE NEXT THREE YEARS
OF RENT JUST FROM A VALUATION
STANDPOINT.
SO THIS IS NOT EASY DECISION
FOR ANYBODY TO MAKE.
SO I JUST WANT TO KIND
OF REITERATE FROM A FINANCIAL
STANDPOINT THIS IS BECAUSE THIS
IS KIND OF A NECESSITY GIVEN
THAT IT FITS THE UDC CRITERIA
BOTH LITERALLY AND CONTEXTUALLY
.
I WILL BE IN SUPPORT OF THIS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER IS
REVIEWING OUR NOTES FROM THE
LAST TIME THIS CAME UP EVEN
THOUGH WE DIDN'T FULLY AND
EXHAUSTIVELY DISCUSS IT AND IT
IS JUST SIMPLY A FACT THAT I
APPROVING THIS DRIVE THRU WILL
NOT OR WILL NOT APPROVING THIS
DRIVE THRU WILL NOT MAKE THIS A
WALKABLE AREA OF TOWN AND IT IS
NOT DESIRABLE TO HAVE A BOARDED
UP BUILDING IF WE IF ANN ARBOR
WANTS TO BAN DRIVE THRU ANN
ARBOR SHOULD BAN THEM.
BUT SO LONG AS THEY ARE IN ICU
THAT SUGGESTS THEIR CONTEXTS IN
WHICH WE THINK THAT THEY ARE
NOT THEY DO NOT POSE A
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM IN THOSE
CONTEXTS ARE LIKE THIS ONE
CONTEXT WHERE THERE THERE WILL
BE VERY LITTLE CONFLICT WITH
PEDESTRIANS.
SO I THINK TO BE CONSISTENT
WITH THE WAY WE CURRENTLY TREAT
DRIVE THRU IS WHICH IS THAT
SOMETIMES THEY ARE OK AND OTHER
TIMES THEY ARE NOT.
THIS WOULD BE THE ONE THAT
WHERE IT IS WHICH IS WHAT YOU
SAID ALREADY COMMISSIONER MELS.
SO I WILL STOP TALKING ANY
OTHER COMMENTS?
OK, I THINK WE'RE READY TO TALK
ABOUT AND THE TWO MOTIONS TAKEN
TOGETHER FOR THIRTY NINE FORTY
FIVE TO THIRTY NINE FIFTY SEVEN
SOUTH STATE STREET PRESSURE
ABRAM'S YES MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT
YES THAT'S MY BRITISH BOY.
YES COMMISSIONER LEE.
YES COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
THOSE MOTIONS CARRY I THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE NOW TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER NINE REGULAR BUSINESS
THE MOSELEY'S ALLOCATION.
THANK I KNOW A DIFFERENT
MEDIUM.
I WANT TO SAY THANK YOU.
WE APPRECIATE AND WE'LL WORK
VERY CLOSELY WITH WHAT THE
CITY'S BEST INTERESTS ARE.
THANK YOU.
GOD.
THE PETITION E MOSTLY STREET
VACATION ADDRESS TWO OR TWO AND
214 E MADISON.
THIS IS A STAFF INITIATED
PROPOSAL TO VACATE ONE BLOCK
OF THESE MOSELEY'S STREET
BETWEEN THE ANN ARBOR RAILROAD
TRACKS AND S FIFTH AVENUE.
THE ROAD EXISTS ONLY ON PAPER
AND BISECTS THE PARCELS AT
TOYOTA AND 214 E MADISON STREET
MEANING IT HAS NOT WAS NEVER
BUILT OR CONSTRUCTED.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND SINCE THIS IS A
STAFF INITIATED PROPOSAL MOVE
DIRECTLY TO STAFF PRESENTATION
MR. LEONARD.
YES, I WILL BE THE LESS
SUCCESSFUL CITY PLANNER JILL
THATCHER THIS EVENING WHO IS
PETITIONER SAYS BUT THANK YOU
FOR THE INTRODUCTION.
THIS IS AS INDICATED A PROPOSED
STREET VACATION.
MY APOLOGIES.
THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF REFERENCES IN THE STAFF
REPORT TO VACATION.
IT IS A STREET.
THE PROCESS IS THE SAME.
THIS IS THE FIRST INSTANCE I
WANT TO HIGHLIGHT SECOND THE
SECOND INSTANCE
OF ME GETTING
CAUGHT IN COPYING AND PASTING
PREVIOUS REPORTS BUT THE SITE
IS HAS WAS ORIGINALLY PLANNED
AS A STREET AS YOU CAN SEE FROM
IT IS FOLLOWING MY CURSOR
MOSTLY STREET HAS WAS PADDED
AND APPROVED FOR THE PARKING
AND RUNNING WEST FROM THE
RAILROAD LINE TO MAIN STREET IT
WAS PLANTED FOR THE PORTION
RUNNING EAST FROM THERE ARE
TRACKS TO FIFTH HOWEVER IT WAS
NEVER CONSTRUCTED.
YOU CAN SEE HERE FROM NINETEEN
FORTY SEVEN IT WAS ALREADY
BEING USED AS PART OF A
LUMBERYARD UNSURPRISINGLY THAT
CONTINUED UNTIL 1979 TILL 2002
TILL TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND TODAY
AS NOTED THAT PROPERTY HAS BEEN
ACQUIRED BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THEIR PLANS
ARE TO CONSTRUCT A NEW ELBEL
FIELD PRACTICE MARCHING BAND
PRACTICE FACILITY THE SITE
WHICH IS ALWAYS FUN TO HEAR AND
AS PART OF THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
ASSIST WITH SOME CLEANUP
OF LAND OWNERSHIP RECORDS.
AS NOTED, IT'S NEVER BEEN USED
TO PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY.
THERE'RE NO UTILITIES.
IT DOESN'T SERVE A SIGNIFICANT
PEDESTRIAN VEHICULAR THRUWAY IN
ANY REGARDS.
THERE'S NO PASSAGE OF THE
RAILROAD TRACKS AT THAT POINT
UPON VACATION AND THE PROPERTY
WOULD REVERT TO THE ARMY ON
EITHER SIDE OF IT.
BUT DOWN THE MIDDLE NORMALLY.
BUT IN THIS CASE BOTH SIDES
THAT ARE OWNED BY THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN SO THEY
WOULD ASSUME OWNER OF IT STAFF
RECOMMENDS THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THAT VACATION.
IT WILL PROGRESS TO CITY
COUNCIL FOR A FINAL
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED MOTION.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY.
STAR NINE IS LISTENING BY
PHONE.
WILL YOU USE THE RAISE FEATURE
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER A
MEETING IN THE NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX CITY STAFF SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH WEB LINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO THAT WE
MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK THIS TIME
SEEING NO ONE?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
OK, WE'RE BEING TOLD NO.
SO I WILL NOW READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION THE INNER CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE EAST MOSELEY'S
STREET VACATION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER BILL SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH DISCUSSION
OF THE PROPOSED MOTION IS THERE
ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE TO BEGIN
OUR DISCUSSION THIS I CAN'T
THINK OF ANY REASON NOT TO SAY
YES TO THIS BUT I WANT TO KNOW
IF UNBUILD STREET WAS ON A
VACATION.
IS IT A PAVED VACATION OR
UNPAVED?
SO HOW LONG DID YOU WORKSHOP
THAT MATERIAL
?
I GUESS I HAVE A QUESTION WHICH
IS MORE JUST INFORMATIONAL AND
CURIOSITY WHICH WHAT IS THIS
CITY SAID NO.
WELL AS THE CITY COUNCIL SAID
NO AND I SUSPECT THAT THERE
WOULD PROBABLY BE A LOT
OF RESEARCH PROBABLY BY LAWYERS
AND TO WHAT HAS BEEN THE
HISTORY AND USE OF THAT
PROPERTY?
I WOULD NOT SAY THAT I CAN
CONFESS FOR ONE HUNDRED YEARS
OF HISTORY OR ONE HUNDRED PLUS
YEARS OF HISTORY BUT IT APPEARS
THAT THERE NEVER WAS ANY
INTENTION TO BUILD OUT.
THERE COULD HAVE EVEN BEEN SOME
ACTION IN THAT FORMALIZE THE
USE OF IT FOR SOME OTHER USE
THAN A STREET AT THIS POINT
TRYING TO PUT TOGETHER THE
TITLE AND DEEDS FOR THE
PROPERTY.
WE'VE NOT BEEN ABLE TO LOCATE
THAT.
SO FOR SOME REASON THE CITY
DECIDED THAT TO VACATE IT AT
THIS POINT I THINK IT'S MORE
PROBABLY A TIDY CLEANING UP
OF TITLE SEARCH BUT I DON'T
KNOW BUT I THINK THAT A LOT
OF LAWYERS WOULD PROBABLY GET
INVOLVED TO SAY WHAT THE
TRADITIONAL USE OF IT HAS BEEN
AND WHAT DOES THAT MEAN.
AND SO FINGERLING LUMBER USED
THAT AND THE LUMBER FOR EVER
THINKS THAT MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT
THROUGH A FOLLOW UP TO THAT I
WAS THINKING I WAS WE WERE
GOING THROUGH THIS.
DO YOU THINK BECAUSE OF THAT
CITY ON LAND FROM A TITLE
PERSPECTIVE IT APPEARS TO BE A
CITY STREET APPEARANCE SO
THERE'S NO COMPENSATION TO THE
CITY FOR VACATING THE CITY IS
WHEN THE CITY VACATES PROPERTY.
IT TYPICALLY DOES NOT THAT IT
RELINQUISHES THE PROPERTY TO
THE SURROUNDING PROPERTY
OWNERS.
SO IT'S AN UNPAID VACATION.
NO, I'M SORRY.
I HAD TO TO PERMANENT BECAUSE
IT'S A PERMANENT LET'S KEEP
GOING.
IT WOULD BE NICE IF THE CITY
COULD FIND SOME MONEY FOR THAT
.
AND THE OTHER QUESTION MINIMUM
WE WILL BE PAID WITH THE
BEAUTIFUL SOUNDS OF THE
MICHIGAN MARCHING BAND GOES
BACK TO MY SCHOOL DISTRICT.
GREG, THE UNIVERSITY COULD
COVER THE STAFF TIME REQUIRED
TO DEAL WITH THE LAKERS.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS QUESTIONS
YOU HAD THIS LAST LONGER THAN
I'M SORRY.
I BELIEVE I'M READY FOR A ROLL
CALL VOTE.
THAT'S KELLY.
THANK YOU.
THE MOTION TO VACATE MOSTLY ST.
COMMISSIONER WAS YES
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
COMMISSIONER LEE.
YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DIS YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
THAT MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
YES.
WE'RE NOW MOVING ON TO ITEM TEN
THAT MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
PLANNING COMMISSION ANNUAL
WE'RE NOW MOVING ON TO ITEM TEN
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING ACTIONS
PLANNING COMMISSION ANNUAL
.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING ACTIONS
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
.
COMMISSION IS DIRECTED TO
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
UNDERTAKE A SERIES
COMMISSION IS DIRECTED TO
OF ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES ON
UNDERTAKE A SERIES
AN ANNUAL BASIS TO COMPLY WITH
OF ORGANIZATIONAL MEASURES ON
PROVISIONS OF OUR BYLAWS.
AN ANNUAL BASIS TO COMPLY WITH
I WILL BEGIN WITH A STAFF
PROVISIONS OF OUR BYLAWS.
PRESENTATION BY MR. LEONARD.
I WILL BEGIN WITH A STAFF
YES, THIS IS AN ANNUAL SERIES
PRESENTATION BY MR. LEONARD.
OF ACTIONS OF THE PLANNING
YES, THIS IS AN ANNUAL SERIES
COMMISSION CONSIDERS MANY
OF ACTIONS OF THE PLANNING
OF YOU PROBABLY RECALL IT THE
COMMISSION CONSIDERS MANY
FIRST OF WHICH IS THERE ARE
OF YOU PROBABLY RECALL IT THE
THREE ASPECTS TO THIS.
FIRST OF WHICH IS THERE ARE
ONE IS THE ELECTION OF OFFICERS
THREE ASPECTS TO THIS.
.
ONE IS THE ELECTION OF OFFICERS
TWO IS ANNUAL REVIEW OF THE
.
BYLAWS AND THREE IS UPDATING
TWO IS ANNUAL REVIEW OF THE
OUR APPOINTMENTS OR LIAISONS TO
BYLAWS AND THREE IS UPDATING
VARIOUS SUBCOMMITTEES OR OTHER
OUR APPOINTMENTS OR LIAISONS TO
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
VARIOUS SUBCOMMITTEES OR OTHER
ALL OF THAT AS ARTICULATED IN
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
THE MEMO THAT WAS PROVIDED TO
ALL OF THAT AS ARTICULATED IN
YOU WHICH IS THE SECOND EXAMPLE
THE MEMO THAT WAS PROVIDED TO
OF MY LACK OF ATTENTION TO
YOU WHICH IS THE SECOND EXAMPLE
DETAIL.
OF MY LACK OF ATTENTION TO
YOU WILL NOTE BEFORE THE
DETAIL.
NOMINATIONS SECTION THAT THERE
YOU WILL NOTE BEFORE THE
IS A LINE THAT SAYS NO CURRENT
NOMINATIONS SECTION THAT THERE
MEMBERS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
IS A LINE THAT SAYS NO CURRENT
NOMINATION TO THEIR EXISTING
MEMBERS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
OFFICE A POSITION THAT'S NOT
NOMINATION TO THEIR EXISTING
TRUE.
OFFICE A POSITION THAT'S NOT
ALL THE EXISTING OFFICERS ARE
TRUE.
IN THE FIRST YEAR HAVE
ALL THE EXISTING OFFICERS ARE
COMPLETED THE FIRST YEAR
IN THE FIRST YEAR HAVE
OF THEIR POSITION SO THEY COULD
COMPLETED THE FIRST YEAR
BE RENOMINATED FOR THEIR
OF THEIR POSITION SO THEY COULD
POSITION.
BE RENOMINATED FOR THEIR
MY APOLOGIES FOR THAT ERROR.
POSITION.
THERE ARE THREE OFFICERS TO THE
MY APOLOGIES FOR THAT ERROR.
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THERE ARE THREE OFFICERS TO THE
THERE'S THE CHAIR THE VICE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
CHAIR, THE SECRETARY, THE
THERE'S THE CHAIR THE VICE
PROCESS TO DO SO IS TO ACCEPT
CHAIR, THE SECRETARY, THE
NOMINATIONS FROM BEFORE.
PROCESS TO DO SO IS TO ACCEPT
OFTEN IT IS DONE IN SORT OF A
NOMINATIONS FROM BEFORE.
SLATE OF OFFICERS.
OFTEN IT IS DONE IN SORT OF A
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE THAT WAY
SLATE OF OFFICERS.
IN THE EVENT THAT THERE WERE
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE THAT WAY
MULTIPLE NOMINATIONS WE WOULD
IN THE EVENT THAT THERE WERE
WE WILL MAKE SURE THAT ALL
MULTIPLE NOMINATIONS WE WOULD
OPPORTUNITIES FOR NOMINATIONS
WE WILL MAKE SURE THAT ALL
FOR A SLATE OF OFFICERS HAVE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR NOMINATIONS
BEEN EXHAUSTED AND THEN WE
FOR A SLATE OF OFFICERS HAVE
WOULD START A VOTING PROCESS ON
BEEN EXHAUSTED AND THEN WE
THOSE AND LIKELY THE ORDER THAT
WOULD START A VOTING PROCESS ON
THEY WERE ORIGINALLY NOMINATED
THOSE AND LIKELY THE ORDER THAT
AND ACCEPTED FOR CONSIDERATION
THEY WERE ORIGINALLY NOMINATED
IF THERE IN THE EVENT THAT
AND ACCEPTED FOR CONSIDERATION
THERE ARE MULTIPLE SLATES
IF THERE IN THE EVENT THAT
OF OFFICERS NOMINATED AFTER
THERE ARE MULTIPLE SLATES
NOMINATION, IDEALLY THOSE
OF OFFICERS NOMINATED AFTER
MEMBERS WILL ACKNOWLEDGE AND
NOMINATION, IDEALLY THOSE
ACCEPT THAT THEY ARE WILLING TO
MEMBERS WILL ACKNOWLEDGE AND
TAKE THAT ROLE AND THEN WE WILL
ACCEPT THAT THEY ARE WILLING TO
TAKE A VOTE AFTER THAT TO
TAKE THAT ROLE AND THEN WE WILL
ACTUALLY ELECT THOSE PEOPLE TO
TAKE A VOTE AFTER THAT TO
THOSE OFFICE OFFICERS IN OUR
ACTUALLY ELECT THOSE PEOPLE TO
CASE BECAUSE OF THE RESIGNATION
THOSE OFFICE OFFICERS IN OUR
OF COMMISSIONER RANDALL, WE
CASE BECAUSE OF THE RESIGNATION
DEFINITELY NEED A NEW OFFICER
OF COMMISSIONER RANDALL, WE
SOMEWHERE SO MAYBE WE CAN GO
DEFINITELY NEED A NEW OFFICER
THROUGH THAT AND THEN AFTER
SOMEWHERE SO MAYBE WE CAN GO
COMPLETION OF THAT I CAN WALK
THROUGH THAT AND THEN AFTER
THROUGH ACTION.
COMPLETION OF THAT I CAN WALK
THE BYLAWS.
THROUGH ACTION.
UH, OK.
THE BYLAWS.
THANK YOU, MR. SO UM I WOULD
UH, OK.
LIKE TO NOMINATE MAKE A
THANK YOU, MR. SO UM I WOULD
NOMINATION I WOULD LIKE TO
LIKE TO NOMINATE MAKE A
NOMINATE LISA SAUV HER CHAIR
NOMINATION I WOULD LIKE TO
MYSELF FOR VICE CHAIR AND I
NOMINATE LISA SAUV HER CHAIR
WISH FOR SECRETARY.
MYSELF FOR VICE CHAIR AND I
ARE THERE ANY OTHER NOMINATIONS
WISH FOR SECRETARY.
FROM THE FLOOR
?
OK, TWO HUNDRED THAT IS ALL
NOMINATION PENDING ANY OTHER
NOMINATIONS FROM THE FLOOR
COMES MY PETITION.
CAN I NOMINATE PEOPLE WHO I
FORGOT TO ASK THEIR PERMISSION
?
I DID FOR AS LONG AS THEY THEY
WOULD NEED TO AFFIRM RIGHT NOW
THAT THEY ARE WILLING TO BE
NOMINATED.
OK
, I WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE
SARAH HAMMERSCHMIDT FOR CHAIR.
YEAH OK YOU'RE WELCOME IN FOR
VICE CHAIR DANIELLE BY YOUR
SECRETARY OK ARE THERE ANY
OTHER NOMINATIONS?
LET'S VOTE.
THESE CAN BE VOICE VOTES.
WELL DON'T WE FIRST NEED TO GET
PEOPLE'S CONSENT TO BE OH YES
THEY HAVE BEEN NOMINATED.
THANK YES WE SHOULD GET CONSENT
OF ALL THOSE PEOPLE WILLING TO
SERVE AND THEN WE WILL TAKE
VOTES ON THOSE NOMINATIONS.
OK, SO COMMISSIONER, WHY SHOULD
YOU ACCEPT THE NOMINATION AS
PRESENTED.
YES OR COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT TO ACCEPT THE
NOMINATION AS PRESENTED?
I'LL ACCEPT IT BUT I WANT TO
VOTE FOR MYSELF TOO.
WE CAN'T MAKE A VOTE IN ANY
WAY.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO DO ANY.
I ALSO ACCEPT MY NOMINEES FOR
NOMINATION AND I AND PREVIOUSLY
VIA EMAIL COMMISSIONER SAUV
DID INDICATE THAT SHE WOULD BE
WILLING TO ACCEPT CHAIR SO I
WOULD SO WITH THAT EVERYBODY
WOULD BE WILLING TO STEP UP OR
MAINTAIN IN THEIR ROLES.
SO THE FIRST NOMINATION SLATE
OF OFFICERS AS COMMISSIONER
SAUV FOR CHAIR EVANS FROM
ASTRIUM WHICH FOR SECRETARY IF
THE CHAIR COULD CONDUCT A VOICE
VOTE OF ALL THOSE APPROVING
THAT SLATE OF NOMINATED
OFFICERS.
AND JUST TO BE CLEAR, WE'RE
GOING TO VOTE ON BOTH SLATES.
YEAH, OK, SO IS THAT WOULD
CLEAR ABOUT THE VOTING PROCESS
HERE?
OK, YOU CAN'T VOTE FOR BOTH.
SO IN ORDER FOR IN ORDER FOR A
SLATE OF OFFICERS TO BE
NOMINATED, THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS TO APPROVE THAT
TO APPROVE THAT VOTE TO
NOMINATE THEM FOR THAT.
SO IF A MAJORITY VOTE IN FAVOR
OF THE FIRST SLATE THEN THEN WE
WILL GO TO THE NEXT SLATE AND I
JUST WANT TO COME SORT OF NEW
TERRITORY FOR ME HERE.
BUT HOW I WOULD SUGGEST IS THAT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
CLEAR AND APPROVING THE FIRST
NOMINATION WE TAKE A VOTE YES.
WE AS A PLANNING COMMISSION
WOULD ACCEPT THESE CANDIDATES.
WE WOULD TAKE A SIMILAR VOTE ON
THE SECOND AND THEN IF THE IF
ONE OF THOSE IS AFFIRMATIVE AND
ONE OF THOSE IS NOT
AFFIRMATIVE, THE AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION IS GOING TO PROCEED TO A
VOTE.
IF THEY WERE BOTH AFFIRMATIVE
THEN I'M GOING TO GO ON THE
ORDER OF THAT THEY WERE
NOMINATED AND WE WOULD VOTE ON
THE FIRST SLATE OF OFFICERS AND
THE FIRST TIME WE GET TO A
MAJORITY VOTE OF A SLATE
OF OFFICERS THAT WOULD BE
SELECTED COMMISSIONERS BECAUSE
THESE ARE ON US.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
NOMINATION.
I THINK THE ONLY DIFFERENCE
HERE IS ME AND I SAID FOR CHAIR
SHE IS HAPPY TO DO IT.
I FEEL LIKE I'M DOING A LOT AND
MAYBE LIKE THE NEXT TERM I
COULD BE SOMETHING BUT I'M
MAYBE I SHOULD WITHDRAW MY
NOMINATION, JUST MAKE IT EASIER
ON US AND JUST LET'S VOTE ON
THE FIRST SLATE SO THAT MAKES
SENSE.
SO YOU WILL NOT ACCEPT THE
NOMINATION I GUESS BECAUSE I
VOTE AGAINST MYSELF ANYWAY BUT
I DON'T WANT TO FEEL LIKE I'M
IN HIGH SCHOOL.
COMMISSIONER DASH OF KENSAL
WHO'S ALREADY SERVED AS CHAIR
TWO TERMS BE RENOMINATED AS
LONG AS NONCONSECUTIVE.
OK WELL IN THAT CASE MAY I
NOMINATE A DIFFERENT SLATE?
I NEED GUIDANCE HERE IN TERMS
OF THE PROCEDURE AND GIVEN THAT
WE CLOSE THE NOMINATION THE
INTENTION IS TO PROVIDE A WIDE
OPEN OPPORTUNITY FOR OFFICERS
TO BE SCIENTISTS.
SO I WOULD SUGGEST WE WANT TO
EXHAUST ALL OF YOU HAVE A
DISTINCT BUT DISTINCT CANDIDATE
WHO IF YOU WILL BE FOR THAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM TO BE
RAISED OK, ARE THERE ANY OTHER
NOMINATIONS FROM THE FLOOR?
YEAH.
OK, SO I WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE
SARAH MILLS AS CHAIR, ELLIOTT
ABRAMS AS VICE CHAIR AND NOW
WHICH AS SECRETARY ARE THERE
ANY OTHER NOMINATIONS FROM THE
FLOOR?
OK, DESK YES THAT'S GREAT AND
WE'RE DOING THIS BY SLATES
BECAUSE THAT IS THE WE DON'T
HAVE TO DO A NOMINAL WAY THAT
WE HAD DONE IT SO WE COULD TALK
TO INDIVIDUAL NOMINEES, MOVE TO
INDIVIDUAL NOMINATIONS AND THEN
MOVE THE CHAIR TO THE END SO
THAT WE HAVE SEEMS LIKE WE HAVE
AGREEMENT WITH OUR NOMINEE OR
NOMINATE FIRST THAT VICE CHAIR
AND SECRETARY HAVE BEEN
ACCEPTED AND SO IF POSSIBLE,
CAN I SUGGEST THAT WE VOTE ON
THOSE TWO OFFICES AND THEN VOTE
ON THE CHAIR?
THAT'S ACCEPTABLE TO ME.
IS THERE ANYBODY OPPOSED TO
TAKING THEM INDIVIDUALLY?
MR. LEONARD, YOU'RE MAKING
EXPRESSION SO I'VE PROGRESSED
TO A MOTION TO ELECT
COMMISSIONER EVANS TO THE ROLE
OF VICE CHAIR AND COMMISSIONER
WHITECHURCH TO THE ROLE
OF SECRETARY.
CORRECT.
AND WE ARE STILL ACCEPTING
NOMINATIONS FOR THE ROLE
OF CHAIR AND ALSO GETTING
PEOPLE'S ACCEPTANCE OF THEIR
NOMINATION.
SO IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE ANYBODY
FOR CHAIR MR. LEE?
SO WE VOTED YOU GUYS THAT I
CAN'T NOMINATE FOR EXAMPLE, I
THINK YOU COULD WRITE I MEAN I
THINK TAKES TEXEL ALREADY.
I DON'T.
NO I THINK I THINK NOT
NOMINATIONS ARE OPEN.
I THINK ANYBODY CAN NOMINATE
ANYBODY FOR ANY ROLE THAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO PERSONALLY I
NOMINATE ELLIOTT ABRAMS FOR
CHAIR SO WE CURRENTLY HAVE
THREE NOMINEES FOR CHAIR MYSELF
LISA SAUV AND SARAH MILLS.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER NOMINATIONS
?
SO I WILL SAY I'M GOING TO ASK
YOU IF YOU ACCEPT THE DID YOU A
QUESTION?
WELL, I THOUGHT YOU WERE MAYBE
ANXIOUS ABOUT MOVING ON WITHOUT
GETTING YOUR CONSENT FIRST
COMMISSIONER MELAKU
COMMISSIONER, THIS QUESTION
MADE ME THINK OF A SLATE THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE IF
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
I KNOW I WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE
COMMISSIONER EVANS FOR CHAIR
COMMISSIONER, LEAVE HER VICE
CHAIR AND COMMISSIONER WISH FOR
SECRETARY
.
I WILL MAKE THIS MORE SIMPLE BY
LETTING YOU ALL KNOW THAT I AM
GOING TO DECLINE THE NOMINATION
FOR CHAIR.
I'M AT CAPACITY AND ALREADY
CONSIDERED THAT AND DECIDED
AGAINST IT.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK SO COMMISSIONER MILLS, WOULD
YOU LIKE TO ACCEPT THE
NOMINATION FOR CHAIR ONE MORE
ONE MORE POSSIBILITY.
COULD WE NOMINATE COMMISSIONER
FOR CHAIR COMMISSIONER EVANS
FOR VICE CHAIR AND COMMISSIONER
WISCH FOR SECRETARY SO WE WOULD
JUST BE ADDING WE WOULD STILL
BE TAKING THEM INDIVIDUALLY AND
ADDING COMMISSIONER LEAVE HER
CHAIR ONE OF THREE NOMINEES FOR
CHAIR POTENTIALLY.
I WILL ASK FOR YOUR CONSENT IN
A MINUTE.
LISA SUBSAMPLES AND
COMMISSIONER B ARE THERE ANY
OTHER NOMINATIONS FOR CHAIR?
OK, COMMISSIONER, DO YOU ACCEPT
THIS NOMINATION?
OH YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, DO YOU
ACCEPT THIS NOMINATION?
I ASSUME WE HAVE A WHOLE LOT ON
MY PLATE AND SO I WOULD BE
HONORED.
IT WAS MY PLEASURE TO CHAIR
DURING KOED I SOMEDAY WOULD I
LOVE BEING ON PLANNING
COMMISSION TO BE HONEST IT'S
WEIRD BUT SOMEDAY I THINK AGAIN
I'M INTERPRETING THAT AS A NO
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT COMMENT.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO WILL SHARE THAT I HAVE A
THANK YOU FOR THAT COMMENT.
SOMEDAY LIKE SARAH
I ALSO WILL SHARE THAT I HAVE A
HAMMERSCHMIDT AND SARAH MILLS
SOMEDAY LIKE SARAH
BUT NOT TODAY SO SO I SUGGEST
HAMMERSCHMIDT AND SARAH MILLS
WE HAVE TWO NOMINEES FOR CHAIR
BUT NOT TODAY SO SO I SUGGEST
BOTH HAVE ACCEPTED COMMISSIONER
WE HAVE TWO NOMINEES FOR CHAIR
SAUV AND COMMISSIONER THE
BOTH HAVE ACCEPTED COMMISSIONER
CURRENT SAUV WAS NOMINATED
SAUV AND COMMISSIONER THE
FIRST I WOULD SUGGEST THAT WE
CURRENT SAUV WAS NOMINATED
TAKE ACTION FIRST COMMISSIONER
FIRST I WOULD SUGGEST THAT WE
SAUV A VOTE OF THE PLANNING
TAKE ACTION FIRST COMMISSIONER
COMMISSION COMMISSIONER ALSO
SAUV A VOTE OF THE PLANNING
HAS BEEN NOMINATED COMMISSIONER
COMMISSION COMMISSIONER ALSO
.
HAS BEEN NOMINATED COMMISSIONER
HE HAS ACCEPTED THAT ROLE AND
.
WE HAVE A VOTE ON THAT IF IT'S
HE HAS ACCEPTED THAT ROLE AND
SUCCESSFUL, COMMISSIONER SILVER
WE HAVE A VOTE ON THAT IF IT'S
WOULD BECOME CHAIR IF NOT WE
SUCCESSFUL, COMMISSIONER SILVER
PROGRESS TO COMMISSIONER OLLI.
WOULD BECOME CHAIR IF NOT WE
THE REASON I AM THE REASON FOR
PROGRESS TO COMMISSIONER OLLI.
THAT ORDER IN MY MIND IS THAT
THE REASON I AM THE REASON FOR
BECAUSE YOU'RE WAS ALWAYS
THAT ORDER IN MY MIND IS THAT
NOMINATED FIRST ALSO
BECAUSE YOU'RE WAS ALWAYS
COMMISSIONER SO HE IS A CURRENT
NOMINATED FIRST ALSO
OFFICER OF THE COMMISSION.
COMMISSIONER SO HE IS A CURRENT
I DON'T I'M NOT SAYING THAT
OFFICER OF THE COMMISSION.
THAT I'M READING THAT FROM
I DON'T I'M NOT SAYING THAT
ROBERT'S RULES BUT IF YOU WOULD
THAT I'M READING THAT FROM
LIKE MORE OF THAT RESEARCH I
ROBERT'S RULES BUT IF YOU WOULD
WOULD NEED MORE TIME TO
LIKE MORE OF THAT RESEARCH I
DETERMINE WHAT ANYONE LIKE TO
WOULD NEED MORE TIME TO
DISCUSS OR MAKE COMMENT ON THE
DETERMINE WHAT ANYONE LIKE TO
VOTING PROCEDURE AT THIS.
DISCUSS OR MAKE COMMENT ON THE
OK, LET'S PROCEED TO A VOTE
VOTING PROCEDURE AT THIS.
PLEASE.
OK, LET'S PROCEED TO A VOTE
OK, SO LET'S DOING WHICH I MADE
PLEASE.
A MOTION TO THE RUSSIAN WOULD
OK, SO LET'S DOING WHICH I MADE
BE TO ELECT COMMISSIONER SAUV
A MOTION TO THE RUSSIAN WOULD
AS CHAIR.
BE TO ELECT COMMISSIONER SAUV
ALL RIGHT.
AS CHAIR.
THE MOTION IS TO ELECT LISA
ALL RIGHT.
SAUV AS CHAIR OF THE PLANNING
THE MOTION IS TO ELECT LISA
COMMISSION MOVED BY YEAH YEAH.
SAUV AS CHAIR OF THE PLANNING
MOVED BY A COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSION MOVED BY YEAH YEAH.
RIGHT.
MOVED BY A COMMISSIONER.
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DESH.
RIGHT.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR.
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DESH.
RAISE A HAND AND SAY I I ALL
I'M ALL IN FAVOR.
OPPOSED.
RAISE A HAND AND SAY I I ALL
DO YOU SAY NAY SAY DON'T YOU
OPPOSED.
CAN SAY ANYTHING YOU GET A
DO YOU SAY NAY SAY DON'T YOU
DISCOUNT I
I AM SAYING THAT THE
MOTION FAILED AS OF FOUR DAYS.
THREE YEARS.
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO THE MOTION FAILS OK SO THEN
I WOULD SUGGEST NEW MOTION FOR
TO ELECT COMMISSIONER LEE AS
CHAIR OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MOTION TO ELECT
COMMISSIONER LEE AS THE CHAIR
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER WAGE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS'
SORRY I'M CONFUSED BOTH CADFAEL
AND THEN WHAT WHAT SITUATION
AND WE WE WE HAVE TO NOMINATE
SOMEONE ELSE.
WE HAVE TO NOMINATE SOMEONE
ELSE.
I NOMINATE AG OK
OK OK ALL IN
FAVOR PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND
AND SAY ALL RIGHT THAT'S ALL
RIGHT WE NEED A MOTION LIKE WE
DID MOTION YOU DIDN'T WRITE IT
DOWN IT WAS MY I THINK DELETE
THAT RIGHT.
DID I SAY YES.
DID YOU GET THAT NEXT KELLY OK
ALL THOSE SORRY BOYS BUT ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I I SAW HAND I'M
SAYING SIX EYES PLEASE LEAVE
THEM RAISED YOU KNOW THE MOTION
CARRIES CONGRATULATIONS
CUSTOMARILY YOU MAY ASSUME THAT
YOU'RE GOING OUT AND I TAKE MY
SCRIPT WITH ME.
I'M JUST KIDDING.
IT'S UP TO YOU.
YOU CAN DO NOW OR YOU CAN JUST
GO HEY DO WE NEED TO VOTE ON
MYSELF AS VICE CHAIR AND AS
SECRETARY GIVEN THAT THE
PREVIOUS DISCUSSION MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THERE SEEMS TO
BE AGREEMENT I THINK OF MOTION
TO NAME BOTH OF THOSE POSITIONS
TOGETHER.
THEY'RE LIKE A MINI SLATE.
OK, SO THERE'S NOW MOTION FOR
MYSELF ELLIOTT ABRAMS AS VICE
CHAIR AND DUNAWAY'S AS
SECRETARY, MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER DESH, SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AY
OH I KNOW THE MOTION CARRIES
WENT ON TO TENBY.
THANK YOU.
I'M SORRY FOR ANY CONFUSION.
I ADDED THAT THE NEXT REGULAR
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING IS
REGULAR REVIEW OF THE BYLAWS.
YOU CAN TAKE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND IT CAN TAKE TWO
ACTIONS.
ONE IS TO PROPOSE CHANGES TO
THE BYLAWS IF THOSE CHANGES ARE
IF ANY CHANGES ARE PROPOSED,
WHAT STAFF WILL DO IS FROM THIS
TIME AND DIRECTION WE WILL WORK
WITH THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
TO COMPLETE REVIEW OF THOSE
PRESENT AND BACK TO YOU FOR
ADOPTION AT WHICH TIME YOU CAN
TAKE ACTION ON THEM FOUR
OF THEM TO THE CITY COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL OR YOU CAN SAY WORK
WITHIN THE BYLAWS PERFECTLY OK
AND THEIR CURRENT FASHION I'M
GOING TO RUN THROUGH SOME
PROPOSED CHANGES THE STAFF IS
PROPOSING TO THE BYLAWS.
MY APOLOGIES.
I THINK THAT THESE WERE ADDED
TO YOUR PACKET DUE TO SOME
LEGISLATOR LACK OF KNOWLEDGE ON
MY PART.
SO I HAVE A TASSER SET OF DRAFT
BYLAWS WITH SOME PROPOSED
CHANGES.
THE FIRST CHANGES ON PAGE THREE
WHICH WOULD ADD SECTION FOUR
POINT TEN.
THIS WAS NEW LANGUAGE THAT HAS
BEEN WAS ADOPTED BY CITY
COUNCIL I BELIEVE UNDER COUNCIL
RULES.
COMMISSIONER GOOD.
YOU CAN CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG
AND THIS BEING ADDED TO A
SERIES OF BYLAWS OF WHERE A
BORDER COMMISSION HAS A COUNCIL
LIAISON.
IT PROVIDES FOR THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER AND A REPRESENTATIVES
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
REVIEW APPLICANTS FOR A
POSITION ON THE BOARD AND FOR
THOSE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE
MAYOR AND COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION IS STILL THE
MAYOR AND COUNCIL'S ACTION
OF COURSE, BUT IT PROVIDES A
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCESS
FOR FEEDBACK FOR THOSE BOARDS
WHERE A COUNCIL MEMBER IS A
MEMBER OR A LIAISON AS COUNCIL
MEMBER SITTING HERE WE ARE THAT
THE SECOND PROPOSED CHANGES ON
PAGE FOUR IS TO FIX A ADVANCER
GENDER NEUTRAL TERMINOLOGY AND
SECTION FIVE POINT TEN.
THE NEXT CHANGE IS A QUESTION
NOT SO MUCH CHANGE AND SEVEN
POINT NINE THIS IS ALSO
REFERENCE ALSO IN NINE POINT
ONE.
SO THREE RECENTLY THERE HAVE
BEEN SOME CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
WE HAVE A PRETTY PROFESSIONALLY
ENGAGED PLANNING COMMISSION.
A LOT OF MEMBERS ARE ACTIVE IN
THE DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY IN
VARIOUS WAYS.
WE HAVE ARCHITECTS, WE HAVE
DEVELOPERS AND OFTENTIMES WHEN
THOSE INDIVIDUALS ARE BEING ARE
RECUSING THEMSELVES
APPROPRIATELY FROM A CONFLICT
OF INTEREST, WE CAN BE
CHALLENGED TO MEET THE MINIMUM
SIX VOTE REQUIREMENTS.
I RAISE THE QUESTION HERE WE
BECAUSE OF OTHER CODE IN THE
CITY NOT YOUR BYLAWS.
OTHER CODE IN THE CITY REQUIRES
IN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THAT THAT
SIX VOTE SIX VOTE MAJORITY IS
REQUIRED TO PASS ANY DECISION
ON A FLIGHT PLAN OR A
RECOMMENDATION TO CITY COUNCIL.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE COULD
CONSIDER IS MODIFYING THAT TO A
MAJORITY OF FIVE VOTES THAT
WOULD BE REDUCING THAT
THRESHOLD IN ORDER TO DO THAT
IT WOULD NOT ONLY TAKE AN
AMENDMENT TO THE BYLAWS BUT IN
ORDER FOR THOSE BYLAWS TO BE
AMENDED IT WOULD REQUIRE AN
ORDINANCE CHANGED THE CITY
CODE THAT OSTRER THAT ABILITY
AT THAT LOCATION AS WELL.
I RAISED THAT IF THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS INTERESTED IN
PURSUING, WE COULD FOLLOW UP
WITH THE STEPS TO REQUEST THAT
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
CITY THAT WOULD BE THE CITY
COUNCIL TO DETERMINE IT WOULD
BE A REQUEST OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
IT IS NOT PART OF THE EDC BUT
RATHER THE ADMINISTRATIVE
SECTIONS OF THE CITY AND THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON PAGE EIGHT I
PROPOSE ADDING THE TIME TO BE
EXTENDED AT THE DISCRETION
OF THE CHAIR FOR THE TEN MINUTE
PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
WE HAVE THAT FOR PUBLIC.
I THINK IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
HAVE THAT DISCRETION FOR
PETITIONERS AS WELL.
I EMBARRASSINGLY THOUGHT WE HAD
ALREADY STRUCK THIS PROVISION
BUT I WOULD PROPOSE THAT WE
ELIMINATE THE FIVE MINUTE FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATIONS TO
SPEAK.
WE TYPICALLY DON'T HAVE THAT.
I CAN'T REMEMBER THE LAST TIME
IT'S BEEN INVOKED.
I THINK THREE MINUTES IS
ADEQUATE ACROSS THE BOARD FOR A
LOT OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE COMMENTARY
ON A PETITION SEPARATING IKOMA
AND PUBLIC COMMENT SO
ELIMINATING THAT SO IT'S AS
CONSISTENT AND SIMPLE ACROSS
THE BOARD AGAIN ON PAGE NINE IF
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WAS
INTERESTED IN THAT WE COULD
PURSUE THAT A OF FIVE
COMMISSIONERS VOTE WOULD BE
NECESSARY FOR APPROVAL AND SIX
FINALLY ON PAGE ELEVEN A COUPLE
OF I WOULD SAY A MINISTERIAL
PROPOSED CHANGES.
ONE IS THE MOST CURRENT VERSION
NO ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER.
THAT'S SOMETHING OUR ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE HAS ALREADY SUGGESTED.
I DON'T KNOW WHY IT MAKES A BIG
DIFFERENCE BUT I DON'T HAVE AN
OBJECTION TO IT AND SOME
SOFTENING FRANKLY OF AMENDMENT
TO OUR BYLAWS AND REVIEW OF THE
BYLAWS THAT SAY THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION SHOULD
REVIEW THEM ON AN ANNUAL BASIS
BUT DOESN'T CREATE ANY SORT
OF I DON'T KNOW, EXPECTATION
WE'RE NOT DOING OUR DUTY IF WE
CHOOSE NOT TO.
THOSE ARE CHANGES THAT I
PROPOSED.
YOU COULD CONSIDER SOME
OF THEM.
YOU COULD CONSIDER NONE
YOU COULD ADD TO SMALL CHANGES
OF THEM.
FOR YOU.
YOU COULD ADD TO SMALL CHANGES
AS I SAID, YOU COULD DETERMINE
FOR YOU.
THAT THE BYLAWS ARE APPROPRIATE
AS I SAID, YOU COULD DETERMINE
IN THEIR CURRENT FORMAT AND NO
THAT THE BYLAWS ARE APPROPRIATE
ADJUSTMENT IS NECESSARY.
IN THEIR CURRENT FORMAT AND NO
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
ADJUSTMENT IS NECESSARY.
THE COMMISSIONER LS AND THEN
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
COMMISSIONER WHICH I AM SURE
THE COMMISSIONER LS AND THEN
THAT'S GOING TO ASK THE
COMMISSIONER WHICH I AM SURE
QUESTION ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS IF
THAT'S GOING TO ASK THE
WE CHANGE THE SEXES TO FIVE AND
QUESTION ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS IF
COUNCIL DOESN'T DO ANYTHING BUT
WE CHANGE THE SEXES TO FIVE AND
ACTUALLY YOUR CHANGE YOUR
COUNCIL DOESN'T DO ANYTHING BUT
PROPOSED CHANGE TO FOURTEEN
ACTUALLY YOUR CHANGE YOUR
POINT ONE.
PROPOSED CHANGE TO FOURTEEN
YES MAKES CLEAR THAT NO MATTER
POINT ONE.
WHAT WE CHANGE IN THIS COUNCIL
YES MAKES CLEAR THAT NO MATTER
APPROVE THIS THIS IS NOT JUST
WHAT WE CHANGE IN THIS COUNCIL
AN INTERNAL TO US SO I I LIKE
APPROVE THIS THIS IS NOT JUST
THIS.
AN INTERNAL TO US SO I I LIKE
I THINK I LIKE MOST OF THE
THIS.
CHANGES.
I THINK I LIKE MOST OF THE
THE ONLY ONE SPEAKING FOR
CHANGES.
COMMISSIONER LIKE PUTTING
THE ONLY ONE SPEAKING FOR
MYSELF BACK IN THE CHAIR SEAT
COMMISSIONER LIKE PUTTING
ONCE UPON A TIME LIKE IT'S NICE
MYSELF BACK IN THE CHAIR SEAT
THAT THE CHAIR HAS DISCRETION
ONCE UPON A TIME LIKE IT'S NICE
BUT I THINK IT'S ALSO NICE TO
THAT THE CHAIR HAS DISCRETION
SAY YOU'VE HAD YOUR TEN MINUTES
BUT I THINK IT'S ALSO NICE TO
LIKE AND WE ALMOST ALWAYS DEFER
SAY YOU'VE HAD YOUR TEN MINUTES
COME BACK TO THEM.
LIKE AND WE ALMOST ALWAYS DEFER
SO I DON'T ACTUALLY KNOW THAT
COME BACK TO THEM.
WE NEED TO ADD THAT IN.
SO I DON'T ACTUALLY KNOW THAT
I THINK WE'RE PRETTY NICE AND
WE NEED TO ADD THAT IN.
THE WAY THAT WE DO THIS NOW IS
I THINK WE'RE PRETTY NICE AND
THE WHOLE TIME SO THAT WOULD BE
THE WAY THAT WE DO THIS NOW IS
THE ONLY OTHER OF PROPOSED
THE WHOLE TIME SO THAT WOULD BE
CHANGES THAT I MIGHT NOT
THE ONLY OTHER OF PROPOSED
CHANGE.
CHANGES THAT I MIGHT NOT
I MIGHT NOT ADD IN THE
CHANGE.
EXPLOSIVE THAT THE CHAIR HAS
I MIGHT NOT ADD IN THE
DISCRETION TO STUNNED THE
EXPLOSIVE THAT THE CHAIR HAS
PETITIONERS TIME BUT I THINK
DISCRETION TO STUNNED THE
THE OTHER ONES CLEAN UP.
PETITIONERS TIME BUT I THINK
YEAH, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
THE OTHER ONES CLEAN UP.
MY QUESTIONS ARE ABOUT WHAT
YEAH, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
HAVE NOT BEEN PROPOSED BY MR.
MY QUESTIONS ARE ABOUT WHAT
LEONARD.
HAVE NOT BEEN PROPOSED BY MR.
SO IS THIS AN APPROPRIATE TIME
LEONARD.
TO ASK THOSE QUESTIONS?
SO IS THIS AN APPROPRIATE TIME
GREAT.
TO ASK THOSE QUESTIONS?
SO I'M IN SECTION FIVE ETHICS
GREAT.
AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
SO I'M IN SECTION FIVE ETHICS
I AM INTERESTED AND I THINK I
AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
HAVE MADE SOME NOTE OF THIS
I AM INTERESTED AND I THINK I
WITH YOU, MR. LEONARD IN
HAVE MADE SOME NOTE OF THIS
PASSING A A LITTLE I THINK I I
WITH YOU, MR. LEONARD IN
THINK I'D LIKE US TO VOTE ON
PASSING A A LITTLE I THINK I I
THE RECUSALS AS OPPOSED TO THE
THINK I'D LIKE US TO VOTE ON
SELF RECUSAL AND PART OF THE
THE RECUSALS AS OPPOSED TO THE
REASON FOR THAT IS RELATED TO
SELF RECUSAL AND PART OF THE
WHY WE ARE POTENTIALLY
REASON FOR THAT IS RELATED TO
PROPOSING TO GO FROM SIX TO
WHY WE ARE POTENTIALLY
FIVE IS BECAUSE OFTEN NOW CHAIR
PROPOSING TO GO FROM SIX TO
LEE HAS TO RECUSE HIMSELF
FIVE IS BECAUSE OFTEN NOW CHAIR
BECAUSE HIS EMPLOYER IS A
LEE HAS TO RECUSE HIMSELF
SUBSTANTIAL REAL ESTATE HOLDER
BECAUSE HIS EMPLOYER IS A
IN THE CITY AND MAY BE IMPACTED
SUBSTANTIAL REAL ESTATE HOLDER
BY A ZONING CHANGE.
IN THE CITY AND MAY BE IMPACTED
AND I KNOW YOU ALL HAVE
BY A ZONING CHANGE.
CONVERSATION AROUND THAT.
AND I KNOW YOU ALL HAVE
BUT AT THE COUNCIL TABLE THE
CONVERSATION AROUND THAT.
THE COUNCIL MEMBER ACKNOWLEDGES
BUT AT THE COUNCIL TABLE THE
THE
POTENTIAL CONFLICT AND THEN
THE TABLE VOTES ON THAT
CONFLICT AND THEN AFTER A
SUCCESSFUL VOTE THEY ARE
RECUSED IN OUR PRACTICE IT'S
JUST A SELF RECUSAL AND THEN
THEY WALK AWAY FROM THE TABLE
AND THERE HAVE BEEN
CONVERSATIONS WHERE THE
EXPERTIZE OF THE SITTING
COMMISSIONER WOULD HAVE HELPED
SUBSTANTIALLY WITH THE
CONVERSATION BUT THE SITTING
MEMBER RECUSE THEMSELVES
AUTOMATICALLY AND THAT IS BY
THE BYLAWS.
SO I DON'T KNOW OBVIOUSLY THIS
IS ON THE FLOOR RIGHT NOW.
I'M NOT ASKING ANYBODY FOR
ANSWERS BUT I DO WANT TO RAISE
THAT AS WE COME TO THESE BYLAW
CHANGES SO THAT THERE IS A A
LITTLE MORE INPUT FROM THE FROM
THE TABLE AROUND THAT RECUSAL
AND THAT IT TAKES I THINK THE
BURDEN OFF OF THE INDIVIDUAL
MEMBER FROM HAVING TO SHOULDER
THE WEIGHT OF WHETHER OR NOT
THEY THINK THAT RECUSAL IS
NECESSARY, THAT I COMMUNICATE
CLEARLY.
OK, YEAH THAT'S AND THAT'S
APPROPRIATE FEEDBACK IF IF IT'S
DESIRE TO PURSUE THESE CHANGES
WE CAN I APPRECIATE THE
REFERENCE TO THE CITY COUNCIL
METHOD.
THAT'S SOMETHING I WOULD
PROBABLY TALK TO THE ATTORNEYS
OFFICE ABOUT THAT SAMPLE
LANGUAGE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S REASONS
WHY THIS IS BETTER IN THE
CIRCUMSTANCES VERSUS THAT BUT
WE CAN DEFINITELY EXPLORE THAT
TO SEE IF IT'S POSSIBLE.
I PERSONALLY WOULD SUPPORT THAT
AND IF ANYBODY ELSE WANTS TO
COMMENT OR ASK A QUESTION ABOUT
US COMMISSIONER.
YEAH, I DON'T BECAUSE MY
EMPLOYER IS NOT SUBJECT TO
ZONING.
WHAT BECAUSE YOU REALLY WOULD
PUT ME IN A WEIRD POSITION
UNLESS IT'S LIKE MY NEIGHBOR,
YOU KNOW, LIKE THAT SO BUT I'M
CURIOUS LIKE DAVID I ABSOLUTELY
AGREE WITH WHERE YOU'RE COMING
FROM BUT IF IT ALSO PUTS PEOPLE
AND THERE'S MULTIPLE PEOPLE
THAT WOULD BE IN THIS SITUATION
BUT IT PUTS THEM IN A WEIRD
SITUATION WITH THEIR EMPLOYER
WHICH I DON'T KNOW AND I THINK
THAT SO BAD IN THAT SITUATION
I'M JUST TRYING TO IMAGINE LIKE
BOTH SIDES I CAN SEE YOU NOT
WANTING TO SEEM SWAYED ONE WAY
OR THE OTHER BUT I ALSO LIKE I
DON'T WANT TO FORCE SOMEONE
INTO A SITUATION THAT PUTS THEM
IN A REALLY AWKWARD POSITION
WITH THEIR JOB THAT'S ACTUALLY
PAID WELL.
LET ME I I DON'T THINK
COMMISSIONER WAGE IS PROBABLY
LOOKING BAD EITHER.
I THINK WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS
IF I'M A YOU WOULDN'T WANT TO
BE IN A POSITION WHERE THE IS
AND SAY OH I USUALLY VOTE ON
THIS BUT THE INDIVIDUAL DOESN'T
AGREE WITH THAT IS THAT OK?
BUT LET ME SO LET ME LET ME
JUST BRING BOTH OF THOSE
CONTINUE TO LOOK AT IT WHEN IF
WE'RE GOING TO PRESENT SOME
REVISED BYLAWS TO SEE IF THAT
IF THERE'S A WAY TO ADDRESS
THAT I THINK THAT'S FAIR
BECAUSE PERSONAL INTEGRITY
MIGHT HAVE A DIFFERENT
THRESHOLD THAN YOUR COLLEAGUE
AT THE TABLE.
I'M SURE YOU KNOW, I I BELIEVE
WE COULD RESOLVE THAT WITH
ABSTENTION SO THEY COULD STILL
PARTICIPATE IN THE SUBSTANCE
OF THE DISCUSSION AND THEN
ABSTAIN FROM THE VOTE BECAUSE
THEN THEY DON'T HAVE THE
CONFLICT AND RECENTLY THE CHAIR
OF THE INDEPENDENT POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE RESIGNED
THAT POSITION BECAUSE THE
EMPLOYER PROHIBITS THEM FROM
PARTICIPATING IN ANY CITY BASED
ORGANIZATIONS AND SO THEY HAD
TO RESIGN IN ORDER TO DO THAT.
SO I WOULD SAY WE HAVE A TOOL.
THE TOOL IS ABSTENTION BUT WE
DON'T USE THAT TOOL AT THIS
TABLE.
THE PERSON JUST LEAVES THE
TABLE AND I SAY YOUR EXPERTIZE
I THINK THE THE GATHERED
EXPERTIZE OF WHO SITS AT THE
TABLE IS WHAT IS HELPFUL EVEN
IF YOU CHOOSE NOT TO VOTE IN
FAVOR OR AGAINST HAVING YOU AT
THE TABLE TO TELL US OR MAYBE
LET'S BE MORE SELFISH TO TELL
ME WHAT I DO NOT KNOW IS REALLY
VALUABLE AND I AM MAKING THIS
PLEA SELFISHLY.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS A TOOL THAT WE USE AND
I LIKE EXPLORING THAT.
YEAH I WILL MY YEAH I DON'T
KNOW WHY IT HASN'T BEEN USED.
I THINK THAT I HAVE I DON'T
HAVE I I ALWAYS THOUGHT THAT
ABSTENTIONS WERE CHALLENGING
BECAUSE IF IF THERE IS A
QUESTION OF WHETHER OR NOT YOU
SHOULD VOTE ON IT EVEN
PARTICIPATING IN THE DISCUSSION
HAS A SPHERE OF INFLUENCE AND
SO BUT THEY EXIST SO I DON'T
KNOW THE APPROPRIATE WAYS IN
WHICH THAT BUT THAT'S A
QUESTION THAT WE CAN DEFINITELY
DISCUSS.
I WILL SAY THAT IT'S ALWAYS
BEEN MY UNDERSTANDING THAT WE
ARE DISCOURAGED FROM ABSTAINING
OUTSIDE OF THIS POTENTIAL
SITUATION WITH A CONFLICT
OF INTEREST AND INSTEAD
ACTUALLY VOTING NO OR ASKING
FOR THE INFORMATION WE WOULD SO
THAT WE COULD MAKE AN INFORMED
VOTE YES OR NO.
BUT I THINK THAT'S OFTEN WHY IT
HASN'T.
DON'T YOU SIT AT THE TABLE UM
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
QUESTION AROUND RECUSAL?
YEAH, COMMISSIONER, I GUESS I'D
BE INTERESTED IN WHAT KIND
OF LANGUAGE WOULD EXIST JUST
BECAUSE IT'S I THINK THE EFFECT
OF NOTWITHSTANDING THE
FOREGOING IN THE EVENT THAT
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS DEEM
THROUGH THE MAJORITY OF VOTES
JUST BECAUSE THERE'S YOU KNOW,
I'M THINKING PRACTICALLY RIGHT
TAKE ONE FOR EXAMPLE, MY
EMPLOYER OWNS A PROPERTY IN DC,
ONE THAT WOULD BENEFIT FROM A
DISCUSSION IT WOULD SAY AT FIVE
POINT ONE IT'S A MEMBER OF THE
COMMISSION SHALL ABSTAIN FROM
DISCUSSION VOTING OR OTHERWISE
ACTING IN ANY MANNER WHERE THAT
MEMBER IS INVOLVED IN A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
SO I'M JUST TRYING TO THINK
ABOUT LIKE WHAT LANGUAGE HELPS
TO OVERRIDE IT.
SO I GUESS I'M INTERESTED TO
SEE HOW THAT MECHANICALLY WORKS
AND AND REALLY CONFLICT
OF INTEREST IS NOT ONLY THE
ACTUAL CONFLICT BUT IT'S ALSO
THE PERCEPTION THEREOF.
SO IT GETS VERY TRICKY AND IT
DOES LIKE AS A MAJORITY COMPEL
ME TO TALK ABOUT THIS ONE
BECAUSE OF MY AGAIN LIKE AND I
HAVE PLENTY OF OPINIONS BUT IF
YOU SEE I'M SURE I LIVE IT I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
PUBLIC KNOWS THAT I'M HERE AS A
CIVIL SERVANT, NOT AS ANYTHING
TO SERVE.
SO I AM JUST KIND OF INTERESTED
JUST BECAUSE IT DOES EXCEED
MORE THAN JUST THE ACTUAL
CONFLICT ITSELF, THE PERCEPTION
THEREOF.
SO I'D LOVE TO SEE THE LANGUAGE
IS KIND OF A COMPLEX TOPIC SO
AND JUST HOW IT WOULD KIND
OF NEGATE SOME OF THE OTHER
ELEMENTS OF 5.1 ON AND REALLY
THE ENTIRE SECTION.
RIGHT.
SO IN MY WORLD IT'S JUST I GOT
TO BE THE BETTER SAFE AND
SORRY.
RIGHT.
AND I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE PUBLIC KNOWS I'M
REALLY HERE JUST AS A PUBLIC
SERVANT SO AND NOT NOT REALLY
ACTING IN THE MANNER THAT SWAYS
ONE WAY OR ANOTHER.
SO THIS IS PROBABLY GETTING TOO
COMPLEX.
BUT IN OTHER ORGANIZATIONS THAT
I HAVE PARTICIPATED IN OR ON
THE BOARDS OF ONE WAY WE DO A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST IS THAT
YOU YOU NAME IT, YOU NAME IT
AND YOU ALSO DECLARE YOUR
STRATEGY FOR MITIGATING IT
WHICH IS TO SAY THAT YOU WOULD
FIND SOME WAY YOU KNOW, JUST AS
A WAY OF DEALING WITH WITH
PUBLIC PERCEPTION WHICH WOULD
BE TO BE VERY TRANSPARENT ABOUT
YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF THAT
CONFLICT AND WHAT YOU PLAN TO
DO TO MITIGATE IT AND THAT
ALLOWS A LOT OF FLEXIBILITY
BEYOND JUST RECUSAL.
SO THAT MIGHT BE SOME OPTION
ALTHOUGH IT'S A LITTLE SQUISHY.
I UNDERSTAND, COMMISSIONER
RIGHT.
YEAH.
AND I THINK THE THE AND NOT TO
PUT YOU IN THE THE FOCAL POINT
OF THIS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION NATIONALLY BUT
THAT IS WHERE WE ARE AFTER
DOING THE MCU EXTENSION
TRAINING ON PLANNING AND
PARTICIPATING ON A BOARD WE
HAVE A WHOLE SECTION ON
RECUSALS AND THEY WALKED
THROUGH SENARIO AND THE BEST
PRACTICE THAT THE INSTRUCTORS
GAVE WAS THAT THE THE PLANNING
BOARD VOTE ON THERE WAS A
DISCLOSURE AND THEN THERE WAS A
VOTE AND AS I SIT AT THE TABLE
WE JUST DECLARE AND THEN
WITHDRAW AND SO I JUST WANTED
TO COME SOMEWHERE BETWEEN THOSE
AND A LOT OF THE LANGUAGE AND
FIVE POINT ONE IS ABOUT
INDIVIDUAL NOT EMPLOYER THE
EMPLOYER ONE IS FIVE AND IT'S
ACTING AS AN APPLICANT OR HAS A
DIRECT INTEREST IN THE OUTCOME
AND INDIRECTLY WE MIGHT ALL
HAVE TO RECUSE OURSELVES AS
ZONING CHANGES PROPERTY VALUES
BECAUSE WE HAVE AN IN OR THIS
HAS A DIRECT INTEREST IN THE
OUTCOME.
SO IT'S JUST TRYING TO CLEAN UP
THE LANGUAGE FOR THE POINT
OF BEING ON THE BOARD WHICH IS
YOU BRING AN EXPERTIZE TO SOME
OF THESE CONVERSATIONS THAT WE
DON'T HAVE OR AT LEAST I DON'T
HAVE AND I FEEL LIKE THAT IS
MISSING NOW WE COULD MITIGATE
THAT IN ANOTHER WAY BY KNOWING
THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE
SOMETHING WHERE YOU'RE GOING TO
RECUSE YOURSELF AND WE HAVE A
SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT WHO IS
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER THOSE KINDS
OF QUESTIONS.
BUT OFTEN AT THE TABLE YOUR
LIVED EXPERIENCES CHANGE HOW I
PERCEIVE SOMETHING I THINK
ALMOST TO A PERSON YOU ALL HAVE
SAID SOMETHING THAT I HADN'T
CONSIDERED
AND I I APPRECIATED
THAT AND I THINK THAT MAKES ME
A BETTER COMMISSIONER AND IT
HELPS MOVE OUR OBJECTIVES
FORWARD SO THAT THAT'S MY
ETHOS.
I'M NOT TRYING TO FORCE YOU TO
PARTICIPATE IN MEETINGS THAT
YOU DON'T THINK YOU SHOULD
PARTICIPATE IN.
THANK YOU.
MR. LEONARD, DO YOU FEEL LIKE
YOU HAVE WHAT YOU NEED TO COME
BACK TO US WITH A YEAH.
SOME MORE INFORMATION OR A
PROPOSAL?
YEAH, I I THINK I'M GOING TO
START A LITTLE BIT UM CLEAN
SLATE WITH THE ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE.
LIKE HOW HOW CAN WE SORT
OF ELEVATE THIS HOW CAN WE
PROVIDE MORE OPPORTUNITIES TO
GET THE EXPERTIZE OF OUR
APPOINTEES WITHOUT CREATING
CONCERNS.
I THINK THAT'S THE NET GOAL
THAT WE'RE TRYING TO ACHIEVE.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE A QUICK MATTER ON THE
BOTTOM OF PAGE THREE.
THERE'S ANOTHER INSTANCE OF THE
USE OF GENDERED THANK YOU
LANGUAGE THAT WE COULD CHANGE
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT?
I READ THE DECREE OK SO ARTICLE
FOURTEEN, SECTION FOURTEEN
POINT ONE THE FIRST SENTENCE
TALKS ABOUT A VOTE OF SIX
MEMBERS.
IF WE CHANGE THE OTHER SIX TO
FIVE DOES THAT ONE ALSO NEED TO
CHANGE TO FIVE OR DOES THAT SAY
A SIX?
THIS ONE THAT ONE YOU COULD
CHANGE?
UH,
I WILL ADD THAT OH NO.
GO AHEAD.
OH NO.
I'LL ADD THAT ON MY ASSOCIATION
BYLAWS I'M THE PRESIDENT OF MY
ASSOCIATION.
THERE'S LIKE A HIGHER STANDARD
I THINK OF VOTES FOR AMENDING
BYLAWS.
SO I DON'T KNOW THAT THIS IS
JUST SPECIFICALLY TO THE
AMENDMENT OF BYLAWS.
SO I'M JUST THROWING THAT AS AN
ANECDOTE.
I SIMPLY WANTED TO BE
CONSISTENT.
WE'RE GOING TO CHANGE IT BUT
YEAH, EVERYTHING ELSE IS
CHANGE.
I'M JUST ASKING I THINK I THINK
IT WOULD BE GOOD TO DISCUSS THE
FIVE VERSUS SIX.
YEAH YEAH.
THAT'S A TOPIC.
BEFORE WE DO THAT LET'S JUST
SAY I I WOULD I MEAN I WOULD
ALSO BE FINE WITH JUST LEAVING
OUT THE TEN MINUTE DISCUSSION
OF THE CHAIR THING.
I DON'T THINK WE'VE EVER I
DON'T KNOW I DON'T I DON'T
THINK I'VE EVER IN AN INSTANCE
WHERE I'D WANT A PETITIONER TO
GO LONGER AND I'M WONDERING
ABOUT THE THREE MINUTE PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION DISCRETION OF THE
CHAIR JUST TO MAKE THEM
CONSISTENT LIKE YOU WANTED TO
DO.
DO WE WANT TO DELETE THE
CHAIRMAN, EXTEND AN INDIVIDUAL
SPEAKING TIME?
I DON'T THINK IT'S BEEN A HUGE
ISSUE.
IT DOES PROVIDE SOME
FLEXIBILITY IF LIKE IF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WANTS TO
HEAR FROM ANOTHER ASPECT OR A
FOLLOW UP QUESTION OR SOMETHING
IN THAT REGARD THAT OTHERWISE
MIGHT BE LIMITED TO.
BUT I'M TRYING TO BE CLEAR NOW
I THINK IT'S RIGHT.
I'M GOOD.
IT'S A FAIR QUESTION.
I WOULD MY MY INITIAL REACTION
I DON'T THINK THAT'S BROKE BUT
NOT THAT I THINK THE DEVELOPER
AS I WAS JUST TRYING TO ADD
SOME CONSISTENCY, I'LL ALSO ADD
THAT I WOULD BE IN FAVOR
OF LEAVING DISCRETION FOR
PUBLIC SPEAKERS BUT NOT HAVING
A DISCUSSION FOR PETITIONERS
AGREEING WITH MR. MILLS
ESSENTIALLY.
YEAH, UM, DOES ANYBODY WANT TO
DISCUSS OR MAKE A COMMENT ON
CHANGING AFFIRMATIVE VOTE
OF SIX TO FIVE?
MR. MILLS, JUST WHILE WE'RE AT
IT, THERE'S ONE MORE PLACE THAT
HASN'T BEEN FLAGGED.
IT HAS SIX AND THIS IS ABOUT
ONE YOU LET'S SEE IT'S SEVEN
POINT FIFTEEN AND THIS IS
CLOSED SESSIONS.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT MAY BE
LINKED TO STATE LAW AND SO I
JUST WANT TO LIKE BUT I THOUGHT
I'D FLAG IT.
THAT'S THE ONLY OTHER ONE THAT
I SAW.
I WOULD CHECK THAT BUT THAT IS
THAT I DIDN'T FIND THAT.
I THINK THAT IS A STATE LAW
REQUIREMENT TO GO INTO A CLOSED
SESSION.
IT IS A HIGHER THRESHOLD BUT
I'LL DOUBLE CHECK THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER.
I JUST WONDERED IF STAFF EITHER
MIXED KELLY OR MR. LEONARD HAD
ANY THOUGHTS ABOUT THE
IMPLICATIONS OF US REDUCING
FROM UM YEAH.
SIX TO FIVE FIVE TO SIX WHICH
WOULDN'T BE A REDUCTION.
I I DON'T PERSONALLY HAVE ANY
CONCERNS WITH THAT.
A LOT OF VERY IMPORTANT ACTIONS
ARE TAKEN ACROSS THE CITY WITH
A MAJORITY VOTE AT SOME POINT
THIS WAS ESTABLISHED TO BE A
HIGHER THRESHOLD PRESUMABLY
BECAUSE OF CONCERNS ABOUT
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
YOUR DISCRETION AT THIS TABLE
IS TO SAY THINGS MEET OR DON'T
MEET OUR ORDINANCE.
IT'S NOT A IT'S NOT A
DISCRETIONARY YOU D APPROVAL OR
THE LIKE MAYBE THE COUNCIL
WOULD FEEL BETTER KNOWING THAT
WHEN RECOMMENDATIONS ARE COMING
THEY ARE COMING WITH A HIGHER
AND A SUPER MAJORITY.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT IS A
SUPERMAJORITY BUT A HIGHER
MAJORITY OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THAN A SIMPLE
MAJORITY.
I DO IT FOR THE SAKE
OF CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
IT'S IT SEEMS REASONABLE THAT A
NINE MEMBER COMMISSION COULD
FORWARD OR TAKE AN ACTION WITH
FIVE OF ITS MEMBERS.
BUT I I AM I'M NOT SURE WHAT MY
PLANNING FOR OR ENVISIONED FOR
FOR FOR PARENTS FOR FORBEARER
FOR PARENTS.
COMMISSIONER, JUST TO DO A
FOLLOW UP OR CAN I MOVE TO
YEAH.
SO THE ONLY THING THAT I AM THE
ONLY THING THAT IS STICKING FOR
ME ON THIS IS THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION IS NOW THE FINAL
APPROVAL BODY FOR THINGS THAT
IT DIDN'T USED TO BE OR THAT IT
USED TO BE AND THEN THAT WAS
CHANGED AND THEN WE CHANGED IT.
WE THE COUNCIL CHANGED IT BACK.
SO PLANNING COMMISSION ONCE
MORE IS FINAL APPROVAL ON SITE
PLANS WHERE THE YOU KNOW,
PROPOSAL ACCORDS WITH THE
EXISTING ZONING IS THERE
ANYTHING ELSE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
IS SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES WHICH
WE LOVE UM
I I YEAH IT'S IT'S
HARD FOR ME TO SEE WHY SIX
VERSUS FIVE MAKES ANY
DIFFERENCE.
YEAH COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT SO THANK YOU FOR ACTUALLY
MAKING THESE CHANGES BECAUSE I
FEEL LIKE A LOT OF THESE
CHANGES ARE RELATED TO THE
THINGS I'VE BEEN RAISING AT THE
TABLE AROUND THE SIZE AND WHEN
WE HAVE RECUSALS SO I THINK
THEY'RE ALL SORT
OF INTERCONNECTED WHICH IS
WE'VE HAD TO SEND TO COUNCIL A
COUPLE BUT TECHNICAL FAILURES
THAT WERE ACTUAL APPROVALS AT
THE TABLE BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T
THE THRESHOLD AND GIVEN WE
HAVEN'T CHANGED OUR RECUSAL
RULES WE COULD HAVE AT ANY
MEETING UP TO TWO COMMISSIONERS
WHO HAVE TO RECUSE THEMSELVES
AND I FEEL LIKE THAT COULD
HAVING IT HAVE TO BE AT SIX.
IT PUTS A LOT OF PRESSURE AT
THE TABLE SO THAT SO I I THINK
GOING TO FIVE IS ACTUALLY
HELPFUL GIVEN THAT WE CAN'T
HAVE ALTERNATES.
SO THIS I STARTED THIS
CONVERSATION WITH COULD WE HAVE
ALTERNATES BECAUSE OF THE
RECUSALS WE CAN'T HAVE
ALTERNATES AND THE RECUSAL
POLICY HASN'T CHANGED SO ANYONE
CAN SELF RECUSE WHICH THEN HAS
AN IMPACT BOTH ON PETITIONERS
HAS AN IMPACT ON WHAT WE SENT
TO COUNSEL, HAS AN IMPACT ON
OUR WORK SCHEDULE BECAUSE
THINGS MAKE IT POSTPONE AND
DELAYED.
SO I JUST FEEL LIKE IT'S ALL
THESE CASCADE'S BECAUSE WE'RE
TIGHT INTO THIS STRUCTURE.
SO THE FIVE ACTUALLY FEELS LIKE
IT PROVIDES SPACE FOR US TO GET
ALL OF THE WORK THAT IS BEFORE
US DONE AND TO DO IT IN A
REASONABLE WAY AT THE TABLE
WITHOUT POSTPONEMENT DELAY OR
SENDING TECHNICAL DENIAL WHICH
ARE OUR APPROVALS TO COUNSEL.
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE IT'S HURT
ANYTHING BUT IT IN THE
COMMUNITY THERE HAS BEEN SOME
MANIPULATION OF THE FAILURE AT
THE TABLE AND TALKING ABOUT
SORT OF PROJECTS THAT THEN GO
ON TO COUNCIL BECAUSE PEOPLE
AREN'T IN THE WEEDS WITH US ON
EVEN WE VOTED FIVE TWO OR
WHATEVER THE VOTE WAS A
MAJORITY AT THE TABLE BUT IT
STILL FAILS AND SO GOES THERE
AS A FAILURE.
SO I THINK THE FIVE HELPS US
WITH THAT AND IT FEELS LIKE A
GOOD COMPROMISE SINCE WE CAN'T
HAVE ALTERNATIVES AND WE
HAVEN'T YET CHANGED OUR RECUSAL
POLICY.
SO IF WE CHANGED OUR RECUSAL
POLICY THEN WE MIGHT NOT NEED
THE FIVE AND WE COULD STAY AT
THE SIX BECAUSE MORE PEOPLE
COULD SIT AT THE TABLE.
THOSE ARE SOME OF MY THOUGHTS
OF WHY I THINK IT IS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS FOR
DISCUSSION, COMMISSIONER MILLS?
SO JUST IN TERMS OF PRACTICAL
NEXT STEPS LIKE DOES IT MAKE
SENSE STUFF IF WE WERE TO
CHANGE FROM SIX TO FIVE
WE
COULD DO THAT TONIGHT FORWARD
IT SHOULD WE DO TONIGHT FORWARD
IT ON TO COUNCIL KNOWING THAT
COUNCIL'S GOT TO CHANGE
SOMETHING ELSE BUT THEY HAVE TO
ACTUALLY APPROVE THIS BEFORE
ANY OF THIS GOES INTO ACTION
ANYWAY.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE OR SHOULD
WE?
HOW SO?
THAT'S ONE QUESTION AND THEN
I'M GOING TO SAY THE OTHER ONE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THE
RELATED MATTER HOW LONG DO YOU
THINK IT'S GOING TO TAKE TO GET
BACK INFORMATION ABOUT RECUSALS
LIKE UM AND I KNOW WE HAVE TO
REVIEW OUR BYLAWS NOW BUT IS
THERE ANYTHING THAT SAYS THAT
WE CAN'T COME I DON'T I DIDN'T
READ THAT WE CAN'T COME BACK.
YEAH.
SO CURRENTLY THE BYLAWS REQUIRE
YOU TO REVIEW THEM ONCE A YEAR
ONE OF THE PROPOSED CHANGES
HERE BASICALLY SAYS YOU SHOULD
BUT YOU DON'T HAVE TO YOU SHALL
NOT BE SLAPPED ON THE HAND IF
YOU DON'T YOU FORGET.
>> YEAH SO AS BUT SO YOU COULD
YOU COULD ALWAYS COME BACK TO
IT TO YOUR FIRST QUESTION IT
WOULD NOT BE APPROPRIATE TO
ADOPT NEW BYLAWS TONIGHT WHAT
THE DECISION BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
IS THERE GOOD AS IT IS OR WE
WOULD LIKE TO PURSUE THESE
CHANGES AND WHAT I AM HEARING
SO FAR IS SORT OF A COMBINATION
OF THE CHANGES THAT I PROPOSED
,THE ONE STRIKING THE
DISCRETION FOR DEVELOPERS SEEMS
TO HAVE SOME COMMON SUPPORT
ACROSS THE TABLE TO NOT INCLUDE
THAT POTENTIAL CHANGE.
I AM GOING TO EXPLORE A
REVAMPING OF THE ETHICS AND
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST TO
PROVIDE TO EXPLORE A REQUIRED
VOTE OR ACTION BY THE
COMMISSION FOR A RECUSAL.
HOW THAT MIGHT RELATE WHEN THAT
VOTE IS AT ODDS ABOUT WHAT AN
INDIVIDUAL COMMISSIONER IS
FEELING OR CONCERNED ABOUT.
AND I'M GOING TO EXPLORE HOW
AND WHEN ABSTENTIONS ARE
APPROPRIATE VERSUS RECUSAL ALL
TOWARDS THE GOAL OF TRYING TO
BRING AS MUCH EXPERTIZE OF OUR
MEMBERS TO THE APPLICABLE
DISCUSSIONS AS IS APPROPRIATE.
SO THAT'S NOT CHANGES THAT I'M
GOING TO PRESENT.
THOSE ARE CHANGES THAT I'M
GOING TO GO TO THE ATTORNEYS
OFFICE.
I'M TO SAY HOW CAN WE EXPLORE
THIS?
WHAT ARE THE EXAMPLES?
LET'S LOOK AT THE COUNCIL
RULES, HOW THEY DO IT, WHAT'S
APPROPRIATE, WHAT'S NOT
APPROPRIATE.
THE MOTION I'M PRESENTING TO
YOU WOULD TASKED US WITH TRYING
TO ACCOMPLISH THAT AND BRING
BACK REVISED BYLAWS TO YOU ON
AUGUST 15TH.
THEN YOU WOULD ADOPT THEM AND
RECOMMEND THAT WOULD BE THE
ACTION TO RECOMMEND THEM TO
CITY COUNCIL AT THAT POINT IF
WHAT I AM HEARING SUPPORT FOR
SHIFTING TO FROM SIX TO FIVE,
WHAT THAT MEANS IS I'M GOING TO
PRESENT ON THE FIFTEENTH I
INTEND WOULD INTEND TO PRESENT
BYLAWS WITH THAT CHANGE TO YOU
BUT THAT IS GOING TO HAVE TO BE
A SORT OF STAGGERED CONDITIONAL
ACTION BEFORE THOSE BYLAWS THEN
PROGRESSED TO CITY COUNCIL.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A REQUEST
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
AMEND THE APPLICABLE SECTION
OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE TO
MODIFY THAT SO THAT THESE
BYLAWS THEN MAY BE FORWARDED
THAT BUREAUCRATIC ENOUGH.
SO YES, ENOUGH OK, I HAVE TWO
TWO QUICK COMMENTS.
ONE IS DID DID DID WE OR STAFF
CONSIDER MAJORITY OF MEMBERS
PRESENT AS OPPOSED TO A FIXED
NUMBER OF COMMISSIONERS?
I DID AND I THOUGHT THAT TAKING
AN ACTION IT SEEMED TO ME LIKE
A MAJORITY OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION VERSUS THOSE PRESENT
WAS APPROPRIATE.
WE DO HAVE SOME BOARDS THAT ARE
PRESENT.
WE RECENTLY FOR EXAMPLE, HAD A
PLANNING COMMISSION OR A
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
ACTION THAT I THINK WAS LIKE A
GROUP OF THREE AND IT WAS A
MAJORITY VOTE OF THREE.
I DID THINK ABOUT THAT.
I THOUGHT GOING FROM SIX FOR
WHATEVER REASON THAT WAS
ESTABLISHED WHEN IT WAS
ESTABLISHED TO FIVE WAS A
REASONABLE IMPROVEMENT TO SOME
OF THE CHALLENGES THAT WE'VE
HAD LATELY WITHOUT GOING TO A
POSITION WHERE IF YOU HAD FIVE
PEOPLE PRESENT THERE'D BE A
QUORUM FOR A MEETING AND ONLY
THREE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES IF
THAT'S SOMETHING THE COMMISSION
WAS INTERESTED IN.
I THOUGHT ABOUT THAT SEEMED TO
JUST BE A MORE EXTREME STEP.
I THOUGHT THE FIVE WAS
REASONABLE.
THANK YOU PERSONALLY I ALSO
THINK THAT THAT'S REASONABLE.
I THINK, UM, ACQUIRING A
CERTAIN QUANTITY OF AFFIRMATIVE
VOTES MAKES MORE SENSE THAN
THAN THE MAJORITY.
BUT I'VE WANTED TO MAKE A
COUPLE OF COMMENTS JUST FOR THE
RECORD I WOULD SUPPORT THE
CHANGE TO FIVE BUT I ALSO THINK
PROBABLY NINETY PERCENT OF THE
TIME WE VOTE UNANIMOUSLY SO
WHICH IS MAYBE SOMETHING TO
TALK ABOUT ANOTHER TIME MAYBE
WE NEED SOME MORE DIVERSITY
OF OPINION UP HERE.
BUT SO I THINK THAT THERE'S SO
I THINK THIS COMES UP WHEN
THERE ARE ACTUALLY THOSE VERY
RARE ITEMS THAT ARE DIFFICULT
THAT WE'RE REALLY GRAPPLING
WITH.
AND I ACTUALLY THINK IN THOSE
MOMENTS THE SHIFT FROM SIX TO
FIVE IS VERY SIGNIFICANT.
I LIKE TO ONLY HAVE TO CONVINCE
FIVE OF US AS OPPOSED TO SIX
OF US.
SO I DON'T I DON'T OPPOSE THE
CHANGE.
I ALSO NOTE THAT ANY TIME WE
CAN ALSO CHANGE IT BACK WE
DON'T HAVE TO WAIT TILL JULY.
WE CAN AT ANY TIME IF WE WANTED
TO CHANGE IT BACK SO WE DIDN'T
FEEL LIKE IT'S TOO RISKY TO DO
IT.
BUT EVEN IF THAT ORDINANCE WERE
CHANGED THE BYLAWS COULD
ESTABLISH A HIGHER LEVEL.
BUT BECAUSE THAT ORDINANCE THAT
IS A BARRIER FROM GOING THE
OTHER DIRECTION.
RIGHT.
UM, I FORGOT THE OTHER THING.
OK, SO BUT WE'RE ACTUALLY GOING
TO MAKE A MOTION TO POSTPONE
WE'RE NOT GOING TO VOTE ON
WHETHER TO CHANGE THE BYLAWS.
YOU ARE GOING TO MAKE A MOTION
THAT IS THE FIRST MOTION IN THE
BYLAWS STANDS OF YOUR STAFF
REPORT.
ALL RIGHT.
I WOULD PROPOSE THAT THE MOTION
READS SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT
OF I MOVE THAT THE FOLLOWING
CHANGES ARE REFERRED TO THE
CITY ATTORNEY FOR REVIEW THE
PROPOSAL INCLUDED IN THE DRAFT
BYLAWS PRESENTED AT THIS
MEETING WITH THE FOLLOWING
MODIFICATIONS THE INVESTEC
PORTION OF ALTERNATIVE ETHICS
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND
RECUSAL LANGUAGE AS DISCUSSED
AND DIRECTED THE MODIFICATION
OF SECTION FIVE POINT TO ONE
FROM HIM OR HERSELF TO
THEMSELVES THE REMOVE OF ALL
OF THE PROPOSED CHANGE TO
SECTION EIGHT POINT THREE THAT
THE TIME FOR A DEVELOPER
PETITION AT THE DISCRETION
OF THE CHAIR AND MODIFICATION
OF ALL VOTES FROM SIX TO FIVE
WHERE APPROPRIATE BY LAW I
WOULD KEEP THAT AMENDMENT TO
THE BYLAWS THAT IS NOT A
SUPERMAJORITY.
OK PERSONALLY FOLLOWING
COMMISSIONER PLEASE.
OK SO SO TO THE EXTENT WHAT
ABOUT CLOSED SESSION?
I DO THINK THAT THAT'S
REGULATED BY LAW BUT IF IF THAT
WERE POSSIBLE KEEP AT IT AT A
HIGHER THRESHOLD AS WELL I
WOULD OK SO IT ONLY BE FOR THE
DECISIONS THE ACTIONS ON SITE
PLANS AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO
THE CITY COUNCIL AND THOSE ARE
THE TWO THAT WERE ALREADY
CALLED OUT.
YEAH.
SO THOSE ARE MY NOTES AND IF
THOSE ARE ACCURATE SOMEBODY CAN
MOVE THAT SECONDED AND A VOICE
VOTE AND WHAT THAT WOULD PUT
TASK STAFF WITH IS GOING TO
WORK ON REFINING THESE WORKING
WITH THE ATTORNEYS OFFICE ON
THE QUESTIONS ABOUT RECUSAL,
ABSTENTION AND THAT BALANCE AND
WE WOULD PRESENT A REVISED
DRAFT TO YOU AND ON AUGUST
FIFTEENTH AND LIKELY AGAIN THAT
WOULD ALSO BE ACCOMPANIED BY A
RESOLUTION FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ASKING THE CITY
COUNCIL TO MODIFY THE BOARDS
AND COMMISSION CHAPTER OF THE
ORDINANCE.
>> OK, MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
WHO I JUST SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY AY HI AND HE OPPOSED
AS WEIGHTS AND KNOWS YES OK
THANK YOU.
OK SO WE'RE UNDER TENBY.
THE COMMISSION WILL VOTE ON A
MEETING CHANGE FOR SECOND
REGULAR SESSION AND GET ONE
MORE ITEM ON THE MEETING.
WE GOT AN UPDATE COMMITTEES AND
APPOINTMENTS I'M SORRY
COMMITTEES AND APPOINTMENTS.
HMM.
I THINK IT WAS UNANIMOUS ON THE
MOTION FOR THE BYLAWS.
IT WAS IS A VOICE VOTE
UNANIMOUS VOICE VOTE NO TO POST
OK.
THE THIRD OPPORTUNITY FOR
ORGANIZATIONAL EXCELLENCE IS
YOUR DESIGNATION TO COMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS AND LIAISON'S I
HAVE PUT TOGETHER A PROPOSAL
BUT IT'S LARGELY JUST WHAT IS
EXISTING ASSIGNMENTS ARE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN COMMITTEE AS
COMMISSIONERS CLARK
HAMMERSCHMIDT LEE SAUV AND
WHICH THE ORDINANCE REVISIONS
COMMITTEE IS COMMISSIONERS'
APRON'S HAMMERSCHMIDT MILLS AND
SAUV THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
WITH THE RECENT ELECTION
OF OFFICERS WOULD BE
COMMISSIONERS APRON'S LEE AND
WHITECHURCH.
WE HAVE ADDITIONAL DESIGNEES
TWO COMMITTEES NO LONGER WANT
YOU OR EXIST.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT FOR YOUR SERVICE
BOTH THE CENTER OF THE CITY
INITIATING COMMITTEE AND THE
AFFORDABILITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE HAVE BEEN
DISSOLVED SO THERE IS NO LONGER
A NEED FOR A PLANNING
COMMISSION LIAISON COMMISSIONER
DISH CONTINUES TO SERVE
VALIANTLY A DOUBLE DUTY
OF LIAISON TO THE CITY COUNCIL
TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL AS A CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER TO THE
COMMISSION
OF ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND MAYBE IS WILLING
TO CONTINUE IN THAT ROLE.
COMMISSIONER LEE IS LIAISON THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION AND
NOT APPOINTED BY THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION.
BUT I DO NOTE THAT STATE LAW
ALLOWS A SINGLE MEMBER OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO ALSO
SERVE ON THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS FOR SOME CONTINUITY
OF THOSE RELATED PETITIONS AND
COMMISSIONER CLARK HAS APPLIED
TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
WAITING ON THE DECISIONS
OF THOSE ABOVE AS TO WHERE THAT
GOES.
SO THIS WOULD BE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO MAKE ANY ADJUSTMENTS TO THIS
.
THINGS THAT JUMP OUT TO ME ARE
COMMISSIONER LEE, IF YOU WANT
TO CONTINUE YOUR ROLE AS
LIAISON TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION GIVEN YOUR NEW ROLE
AS CHAIR, IF YOU DO THAT AND I
WOULD WELCOME ANY CHANGES OR IT
COULD BE ADOPTED IN ITS CURRENT
FORM PROVISIONALLY.
YEAH, I RECALL THAT
COMMISSIONER WAITZ AT SOME
POINT EXPRESSED SOME INTEREST
IN THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION.
OK, OK.
I WILL GO I I I I DID NOT I WAS
I WAS WONDERING WHY YOU WERE
MAKING EYE CONTACT ME BEHIND ME
OK NEVER MIND OK NO NO I LIKE
SERVING ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION IT WAS MY SUB AREA
OF CONCENTRATION AND PLANNING
SCHOOL SO YEAH IS IS THE I DO
HAVE TO ASK JUST THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE JUST AS FAR I'M NEW
TO IT SO I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT IS
LIKE THE ADDITIONAL TIME
COMMITMENT TO I THINK WE MEET
ONCE OR TWICE A YEAR PERHAPS
BUT SOMETIMES NOT AT ALL.
OK GOT IT.
UNDERSTOOD YEAH NO I GET THEIR
QUESTION MOST RECENTLY WE HAVE
MET TO DISCUSS THE RETREAT A
PLANNING COMMISSION RETREAT.
COOL BUT IT'S VERY ON VACATION
UNPAID ON PAY.
THIS IS THE JOKE THAT'S REALLY
GOING TO KEEP ON GIVING.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
PROPOSED REVISIONS TO THE
COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS AS
PROPOSED?
COULD SOMEBODY MOVE SECOND AND
A VOICE ONE ON THAT?
I MOVE THE COMMISSIONER
APPOINTMENTS REFLECTED ON THE
ATTACHMENT AS MODIFIED DURING
DISCUSSION BE APPROVED BY
COMMISSIONER WIJK SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS ISLAND FAVOR
SAY AY AY THE MOTION CARRIES
NOW WE MOVE ON TO THE MEETING
CHANGE FOR OUR SECOND REGULAR
SESSION IN AUGUST FROM
WEDNESDAY AUGUST 16TH TO
REGULAR MEETING DAY OF TUESDAY
AUGUST 15TH.
WITHOUT OBJECTION THAT CHANGE
WILL BE MADE.
ARE THERE ANY OBJECTIONS OR
PAUSE FOR CLARIFICATION?
WE OFTEN GET AROUND ANTICIPATED
ELECTION DATES.
WE HAVE CONFIRMED THAT THERE
WILL BE NO AUGUST ELECTIONS SO
WE CAN MOVE FROM NEXT WEDNESDAY
DATE BACK TO OUR TYPICAL
TUESDAY DATE.
>> YES
, I'M SORRY TO THE CHAIR
COULD IS YOUR MICROPHONE ON?
IT'S HARD TO HEAR YOU UM THAT
ALSO DID HAPPEN.
OH THERE WAS A PREVIOUS ALSO WE
MOVED THE PREVIOUS WEEKS
WORKING SESSION FROM THE 8TH TO
THE 9TH.
OK SO SO WE ARE CURRENTLY
SCHEDULED TO MEET WEDNESDAY THE
NINTH AS A WORKING SESSION AND
AND NOW TUESDAY THE FIFTEENTH
AS A REGULAR MEETING.
YES AND THIS IS ODD.
I'M JUST LOOKING AT A PIECE
OF PAPER THAT ONLY HAS THE MOVE
OF THE OF THE NINTH MEETING THE
EIGHTH I THINK THAT'S FROM A
PREVIOUS HUH.
OR I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT BUT IT'S THE ONE
THAT I FOUND ON THE AGENDA BUT
OH OK.
SO YEAH THAT'S WHAT YOU HAVE TO
WRITE OK.
YEAH THAT'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
IT'S MOVING BUT YOU HAVE
SOMETHING ELSE MOVING CHAIR
APRON'S BIPPOLO GIVE US ONE
MINUTE.
YES YOU'RE RIGHT.
SO THE MEETING THE REVISED
MEETING'S SCHEDULE THAT WAS
ATTACHED TO THIS AGENDA ITEM
SHOWS A MOVE FROM AUGUST 9TH TO
AUGUST 8TH.
COMMISSIONER TUSHES CORRECT?
>> I WOULD BE SO THAT'S
INCORRECT BUT ACTUALLY THAT'S
MORE IN LINE WITH WHEN THE
ELECTION USUALLY IS.
YES.
THERE'S NO ELECTION USUALLY THE
WEEK OF AUGUST IN THE MID
AUGUSTINES AUGUST 15TH IS
ALREADY OUR CALENDAR.
SO AS A REGULAR MEETING CORRECT
.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER FOR
CATCHING THAT
.
I'M ALMOST THERE
>> YEAH, I THINK IT'S CORRECT
AND THE AGENDA IS JUST
INCORRECT IN MY SCRIPT SO I
THINK I JUST MISSPOKE.
SO CAN I START OVER PLEASE MAY
I PLEASE START AGAIN?
THIS IS WHY I'M NOT CHAIR
UH
YEAH I JUST THINK IT'S THE WORK
SESSION UP THE FIFTEENTH.
>> RIGHT GOT IT.
ALL RIGHT.
STARTING OVER TENBY, A REVISED
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING CALENDAR.
THE COMMISSION WILL VOTE ON A
MEETING CHANGE FOR OUR WORKING
SESSION IN AUGUST FROM
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9TH TO THE
REGULAR MEETING DAY OF TUESDAY,
AUGUST 8TH WITHOUT OBJECTION
THAT CHANGE WILL BE MADE.
ARE THERE ANY OBJECTIONS?
>> ALL RIGHT.
THAT CHANGE IS APPROVED.
WE'RE ON TO OUR AGENDA ITEM
ELEVEN PUBLIC COMMENT.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE PRESENT IN
THE ROOM WITH US.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO HAS BEEN
JOINING THE MEETING WHO IS
JOINING THE MEETING REMOTELY?
OK, SEEING NO ONE THEN I WILL
SKIP THE LONG SCRIPT FOR REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS WHO SPEAK TO US ON
TO NUMBER TWELVE COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
IS THERE ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS ALL RIGHT
SEEING NONE WILL MOVE TO
THIRTEEN WHICH IS ADJOURNMENT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER LEA.
OH ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I WE
ARE ADJOURNED